[Music]
Dr Umar happy the hell you on the
platform my guy peace and pan africanism
art glad to be back hey man had to bring
you back man you know the people love
your commentary man so you know it's
only right to bring you back appreciate
that much love to the supporters yes
indeed so I gotta ask you right about an
hour ago wish is crazy but you know Joe
Biden you know he dropped out the
presidential election how you feel about
that yes sir what is my reaction to
President Biden dropping out of the 2024
presidential race I have several
thoughts number one we have to put this
within its proper political context the
United States government is not
controlled by neither the Democratic
party or the Republican party they are
simply the public government the
president the Congress the Supreme Court
they are the public government
but there is a private government and
that private government includes but is
not limited to the National Security
Agency the trilateral commission the
Council on Foreign Relations the Federal
Reserve and the Bilderberg Group and the
Bilderberg Group we need to pay
particular attention to because the
Bilderberg Group in my opinion at this
moment in history I believe is the most
influential of all of of the secret
societies it was the Bilderberg Group
that made Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton come to a truce back during the
Obama years when he was running for
president and the Democrats were
struggling over whether to nominate
Obama or nominate Hillary Clinton they
both had to go and sit in the Builder
bgen meeting and receive their marching
orders so I found it rather interesting
that President Obama has surfaced as
being one of the leading Democrat rats
who influenced President Biden to step
down there's a strong possibility that
it was the Bilderberg Group who gave
Barack Obama the instructions to tell
his good friend Joe Biden to stand down
because they may very well have wanted
the Democrats to remain in power in the
white house but I think it's Crystal
Clear the more we get closer to election
day on November the 5th it's becoming
more clearer that the American public
from what I see is more behind Donald
Trump than they are behind President
Biden and I believe that the
bilderbergers may have told President
Obama to instruct Donald Trump to stand
down but it gets more interesting
because President Obama does not support
kamla Harris's endorsement he said that
the Democratic party need to take a look
at all of their potential contenders who
could replace Joe Biden as the
Presidential nominee which is kind of
interesting from a personal standpoint
because both he and kamla Harris are two
mixed race Africans who never really
identified with black people and both
were puppets for the white power
structure so you would think he would
have a lot more in common with KLA
Harris it could be a case of narcissism
but no matter how you look at it I
wouldn't be surprised to find out that
the shadow government instructed Barack
Obama to make
President Biden stand down and I'm
also uh rather intrigued by the fact
that President Biden decided to stand
down on a Sunday a nonbusiness day not
Monday not Tuesday not Wednesday not
Thursday or Friday but he did it during
the weekend that means that the shadow
government found it necessary for him to
replace be replaced right now and not a
second longer let me make this make
sense for the listening public
America is not a
democracy the people do not choose the
president presidents are publicly
confirmed by the Electoral College it is
the electoral college that votes for the
president not the people now based on
your popular vote whoever wins the
popular vote in a state generally will
carry all of the Electoral College votes
for that state but the Electoral the
electors of that state are not required
to vote for the person that won the
popular vote so for example you beat me
in Pennsylvania for the popular vote for
president of the United States you
clearly won the popular vote the
Electoral for the state of Pennsylvania
99.9% of the time will vote for you to
be president because you carried the
popular vote but they are not required
to do so by constitutional law and the
reason they are not required to do so by
constitutional law is the United States
government is not a democracy it is a
republic it is not the rule of the
majority it is the rule of law that's
why the word democracy is not in the
Constitution the word democracy is not
in the Preamble the word democracy is
not in the Declaration of Independence
the word democracy cannot be found in
any of the 50 state constitutions of
this country this is not a democracy it
is not the rule of the majority it is a
republic the rule of the law and who
controls the Republic the
aristocracy the elite Financial powers
of this country that's who really
chooses the president now if that is the
case
why so much attention is put on the
popular vote because since this is not a
democracy it is important to keep the
illusion of inclusion alive and well
when people don't think they have a say
in government they overthrow it when
people don't think they have a say in
government they spark Revolution when
people don't think they have a say in
government rebellions happen so it is
important for the power structure the
media the corporate oligarchy to
manipulate the American Collective
Consciousness into voting for the person
they
pre-selected it is important that the
people come to the same conclusion
through manipulation and indoctrination
as the power structure when the power
structure chooses one president in the
people choose someone else then the
illusion of a democracy begins to yield
it dirty head and that can spell trouble
for maintaining the status quo in the
social order for example in our lives we
seen twice where a presidential
candidate who won the popular vote lost
the White House Al Gore won the popular
vote George Bush won the White House
Hillary Clinton won the popular vote
Donald Trump won the White House they
can't keep letting that happen because
the the more and more that the people
choose one person and the power
structure choose another when people
start to see that we really don't
control this government we really don't
choose our leaders they start to rebel
and that's why so much energy is put
into the popular vote because it needs
to confirm the the selection of the
secret government now with that being
said who do I think the power structure
wants in the White House at this moment
because they normally select presidents
a couple years in advance by the way at
least four years they already know who's
going to take the place they leave
nothing up the chance I'm not sure who
they want and the reason I'm conflicted
is because they made Joe Biden stand
down a part of me says that they wanted
Biden but he's not popular enough to
carry the popular vote again maintaining
that illusion of democracy so part of me
says they wanted Joe Biden but no longer
popular enough to hold the popular vote
so to keep the illusion of democracy
alive we got to tell Barack Obama to
tell him to stand down let's put
somebody else in that spot and see if
they can carry it that's a part of me
the other part of me could see a Donald
Trump and the reason Another Part Of Me
could see a Donald Trump is Donald Trump
and Republican presidents in general are
pretty good for war they're very good
for sparking up War but although they're
good for war they are poor at building
relationships with second and third
world Nations why am I bringing that up
China is on the rise China is on the
global takeover can Donald Trump build
the relationships with South Africa can
he build the relationships with Nigeria
and Cameroon can Donald Trump build the
relationships with Ethiopia and Egypt
that the shadow government needs America
to have so they can continue to go into
the mother continent and freely exploit
the resources I'm not sure Donald Trump
is the president to build those
political relationships with Africa
Jamaica Brazil so forth and so on I'm
not sure he's good for that and if he's
not good for that if the shadow
government doesn't believe Donald Trump
is good enough to build those diplomatic
relationships so white Corporate America
can continue to R the resources of the
black nations of this world then they
might choose resources over War it's
really going to come down to whether or
not the shadow government values the
Chinese threat more or the need to make
money in war more in other words is this
election more about the ability to
dominate other people or is it more
about being diplomatic and being able to
build relationships with Africa so you
can exploit them diamonds that gold that
silver that gas that oil so I'm not sure
which way the shadow government is
tipping its hat because I'm not in those
meetings but I'll tell you what will
help me make a better decision as to who
they want in the white house when I see
who the final Democratic nominee is if
it's not going to be KLA Harris and who
will be the Vice Presidential nominee
for the Presidential nominee in other
words let me see who the Democrats end
up with for president and let me see who
that Democratic Presidential nominee
ends up with for their vice president
and then I could probably give you a
better idea as to whether or not the
shadow government wants the Democratic
president or the Republican
president you personally who do you want
to see represent the
Democrats nobody because I don't see
anyone when I look at the US Senators
when I look at the US
representatives when I look at I think
we only have one or two black Governors
the brother down in Maryland and he's a
freshman so I doubt if they'll anoint
him and pull another Barack Obama stunt
where they snatched Obama out the US
Senate as a first-term senator and made
him president that's because George Bush
destroyed America's relationship with
Africa Barack Obama becames necessary
because of George Bush's poor diplomatic
relationship with Africa so they said
here's a black man who alleges to have a
Kenyan father if we put Barack Obama in
the white house we can go into Africa
get them resources back install our
military system in Africa and that's
exactly what they did Barack Obama was a
supreme success for the white power
structure in Africa that's why they
chose him and just like George Bush made
Obama necessary
Obama made Donald Trump necessary
domestically because Americans
domestically got tired of hearing Barack
Obama's rehearsed prescripted answers to
every question he was given When Donald
Trump came sounding like a fool but
speaking from his heart that endeared
him to Americans who are sick and tired
of the political game they just want a
genuine leader even if he doesn't always
make the right mistakes so Bush made
Obama necessary Obama made Trump
necessary and then Trump made Biden
necessary and now Biden it appears May
once again be making Trump necessary but
for me I don't see anyone on the blue
aisle or the red aisle that's speak into
the issues that affect American Africans
the George Floyd police Reform Bill
still hasn't been passed nobody's
talking about that we don't have any
antiblack hate legislation at all we
have no economic empowerment legislation
for black people at all nothing about
mass incarceration nothing about
miseducation nothing about
gentrification nothing about police
genocide I'm sure you saw the situation
that happened not too long ago with the
sister in Springfield Illinois who was
shot in the face three times Maybe by a
white Deputy in her home shot and
murdered her and cold blood in her home
and we still don't have any anti-hate
legislation or the George Floyd police
accountability act and I don't think
either candidate President Biden or
president Trump has spoken to that now
let's say conla Harris walks
in my question would be how is Vice
President kamla Harris any better for
black men in America than Donald Trump
how is she any better for black men in
America than President Biden President
Biden may have drafted Bill Clinton's
1994 crime bill but kamla Harris did all
she could to implement Bill Clinton's
1994 crime bill look at all the black
people that Kamala Harris had arrested
and thrown in jail while she served as a
prosecutor over in California so in my
opinion if the Democratic party wants
the black male vote I'm not too sure
they get it with K har but I know what
she's going to do she's going to do
exactly what the Republicans just did in
Milwaukee without without sister Amber
Rose and with haulk Hogan wait till you
see the negr peans who are going to
speak at the Democratic National
Convention it's going to be a complete
circus I'm telling you what they're
going to do I believe they're going to
grab the rappers and they're going to
grab the athletes they're going to find
some one extremely popular within the
Hip Hop industry and the entertainment
world to speak for kamla Harris or
whomsoever the Democratic party
convention nominates I promise you
because they have to outdo Hulk Hogan
and they have to outdo Amber Rose now
with that being said let me speak to
both of them
quickly Hawk Hogan when I was a fourth
and fifth grader right here in
Philadelphia growing up in elementary
school I was a Hulk Hogan fan anytime
Hulk Hogan came to wrestle at the
Spectrum in Philadelphia I was there I
had the dials I had the belt we used to
make them out of cardboard and aluminum
foil I had all the wrestling magazines I
don't think there was a stronger haulk
Hogan fan in elementary school back in
those
days since then what have we learned in
2007 I believe it was Hulk Hogan was
caught on tape calling his daughter's
black boyfriend the nword he was
subsequently dismissed from the WWE Hall
of Fame in
2015 they reinstated him a few years
later because they claimed he apologized
and worked on himself and all these
other lies so guess what happens a
couple weeks ago a couple days ago this
black sister alleges that Hulk Hogan
fired her from being a brand ambassador
for his new Great American Beer so he
has some beer he's selling somehow a
black woman gets hired to be a brand
ambassador for haulk Hogan and he fires
her once he finds out she's black now
his public relations manager claims who
is black that he can't be a racist
because after all he hired me and of
course we know that that's complete
nonsense but here's the issue for Donald
Trump in the Republican National
Committee to bring Hulk Hogan to
Milwaukee a city that is predominantly
black African people are the largest
ethnic group in the city of Milwaukee
you brought Hawke Hogan to Milwaukee for
the Republican National Convention when
he fresh off an allegation of racism you
know what that tells me that they don't
care about black people which we already
know but it also shows you that they are
bold and Unapologetic and not giving a
damn about black people how do you bring
a confirmed racist Hulk Hogan to a black
City Milwaukee to speak for Donald Trump
if you care at all what black people
think and what did Hulk Hogan say in his
closing statements Hulk Hogan
specifically said you
criminals you
scumbags you loow lives and you drug
dealers criminals drug dealers
criminals drug dealers doesn't that
sound like the same rhetoric that George
Bush used to get elected that's the same
rhetoric George Bru Senor used to get
elected see so Donald Trump is digging
back in the Republican Party playback
and they're weaponizing race against
black people with the criminal in Lo
life because we all know what color
they're not thinking about white folks
when they hear criminal and they're not
thinking about white folks when they
hear lowi so he's literally
criminalizing black people to get
elected while black people are running
around thinking he's the best thing
since sliced bread now let me go to my
sister Amber
Rose sister Amber reached out to me a
couple months ago to do an interview
which we may do that'll be completely up
to her I told her I'm willing to do it
uh I was interviewed on Power 99 FM
Philadelphia is number number one hip
hop in R&B station a few days ago and
the question came up did I see Amber R
Ro's Republican National Convention
speech and I had not seen it but sister
Roxy shout out to Roxy in Mikey Dread
Power 99 sister Roxy talked about how
she felt that Amber Rose never really
identified as a black woman I said well
in my conversation with sister Amber
Rose she very much affirmed the fact
that she was African and sister Roxy
said nah doc you're going to have to do
some research so after my interview on
Power 99 the other day I went home and I
did some research first of all I watched
sister Amber's RNC speech from Milwaukee
I watched it and sister Roxy had alluded
to an interview Amber did nine years ago
in 2015 when she said and I did hear her
say that I am not a black woman or I do
not identify as a black woman so sister
Roxy was correct Amber did say that but
in defense of her I said which is the
same thing I said to the Kendrick
supporters when they came at Drake for
wearing the black face I'm the most
unapologetically black man you're going
to find in this country at the same time
I understand people have to evolve their
political Consciousness so what I said
to Roxy and what I'm saying to you is if
Amber Rose said I don't identify as a
black woman n years ago or so but she
has since come into the Consciousness
and now Embraces her
africanity I can forgive her for her
coonish behavior nine years ago if Drake
comes to me and says yeah doc I put on a
black face I make jokes about black
people because I was primarily raised in
a Jewish household and I kind of I saw
myself as white but I've evolved since
then and I know I'm a black man I can
forgive him for his previous coonish
behavior my thing is this if Amber Rose
considers herself a black woman now I
can't hold her to that she's still
responsible for what she said but she
don't get cancelled because she's grown
if Drake says I did that but I now
consider myself a black man I can't
cancel him because at least he has
evolved all of us suffer from
post-traumatic slavery disease all of us
suffer from post-traumatic colonization
disease we all have it so a mixed race
African might have it a little more but
if they've made amends with their own
soul if they've made amends with their
own African ancestors if theyve made
amends with their own selves and they're
saying I stand before you now Dr Umar as
an unapologetically African woman Amber
Rose or an unapologetically African man
in Drake I can accept them so with that
being said nothing Amber Rose said in
her speech in Milwaukee the other day I
found to be
disrespectful or towards black people or
should I say warranting of a
cancellation nothing she said I felt was
warranting of a cancellation did I agree
when she said these are my people and
this is where I belong I absolutely
don't agree with Amber Rose when she
said these are my people and this is
where I belong
I absolutely didn't agree with Amber
Rose when she said quote and I may be
paraphrasing when she said the best
thing we can do for the future of our
babies is to elect Donald Trump I would
have to ask my sister whose babies are
we talking about because Donald Trump
just executed five black men who were
babies to their parents at one time so
whose babies are we talking about Donald
Trump hasn't introduced any legislation
or executive orders to deal with the
police Extinction of black men he ain't
dealt with miseducation Donald Trump
done nothing about mass incarceration
and who's being Mass incarcerated our
black babies who's being exterminated by
these police our black babies who's
being miseducated in these schools our
black babies so when sister Amber Rose
says if we care about the future of our
babies we will elect Donald Trump I
cringed on that I completely disagreed
with her on that but did she say
anything that I feel will warrant her to
be cancelled from the black community if
she does in fact identifies as a black
woman nothing she said I felt went far
enough to cancel her it would be no
different than if somebody went up there
and sung Joe Biden's Praises or one of
these rappers who's going to get up in
Chicago and sing kamla Harris's Praises
or whoever the DNC chooses so for me
people saying Amber Rose need to be
cancelled for speaking at the RNC
nothing she said I felt warranted a
cancellation but I do need her to
clarify her racial identity now I'mma
say this last point on my
sister in her defense we were
communicating via text and of course I
never share my text messages with public
figures and I'm only sharing this
because I don't think she Minds me
saying this sister Amber told me in
confidence
through text
message the reason she identified as
mixed race is because she had been told
by black people her whole life that
because she had a black mother and a
white father she could not consider
herself black she said she had been told
that if she had a white mother and a
black father that she had been told that
the man dictates the race of the child
and she said that she was led to believe
by us by Africans in America and of
course she's from right here in
Philadelphia as am I but she was led to
believe by us that because her father
was white and not black she could not
identify as one of us now assuming she's
being honest and I have no reason to
believe she's not assuming sister Amber
is being honest I can't fault her if we
made her to if we made her to feel that
she was not black guess why I talked to
a lot of mixed race Africans and as you
know are I think we've had this
conversation
before with Pana africanist we believe
in a one parent rule one parent if your
mother black or your father black as
long as you identify fulltime we accept
you as African that's how it was for the
most honorable Marcus Garvey that's how
it was foram kruma that's how it was for
Patrice lumba that's how it was for
Robert sabuk that's how it was for
Bishop Henry mcil Turner major Dr Martin
Robinson Delaney Bishop Alexander kummel
Edward Wilmont Blen going back almost
300 years if you were mixed and you
consider yourself one of us you had a
black parent you were one of us and
that's what I told sister Amber in
response we haven't talked since then
okay but all I'm saying is to clear the
air
if black people made her feel that way
and there is sufficient proof that they
did why do I say that art because right
now we dealing with this multi-racial
thing you have American Africans saying
that if your mama black and your daddy
white you not black or if your mama
white and your daddy black you not black
or if either parent is not black you not
black so there is evidence I know for a
fact that what she's saying is true is
it true for her is she just making that
up I'm not going to put that on her she
spoke to me in confidence I believe she
told me the truth in confidence but yet
and still just like Drake just like
Drake sister Amber is going to have to
publicly declare whether or not you
identify as a black first woman like
Drake black first man or whether y'all
want to be considered mixed race and I
don't support mixed race because when a
black person tells me their mixed race
art what they're telling me is I may not
be good enough to be white but I'm too
good to be black and that is why I do
not identify with people who call
themselves mixed race now to clarify art
I don't care if they say I'm mixed race
for the purpose of making sure people
know I have non-african parentage in
other words if I'm identif identify
myself as mixed race so people
understand my biological ancestral
origin that's cool I'm talking
socially
politically professionally
culturally how do you identify and if
they say mixed race over black I
couldn't consider Amber Rose or Drake my
brother or my sister but I believe they
are both black first and being black
first doesn't mean you have to reject
your white parent your white family your
white ancestry just like when my brother
charlam man told me the other day on The
Breakfast Club he said well Drake says
he's a Jew I ain't got a problem with
that he came from a Jewish mother just
because he admits he's Jewish doesn't
mean he rejects being black but if he's
pushing I'm Jewish all day and I never
hear I'm a black man until it's time to
show up to the beted awards then I have
a problem with that yeah that's real
talk but can you imagine how that
Democrat conviction gonna be man like
can you imagine that yo it's gonna be a
circus brother it is going to be a
circus now let me give you this art
about the Democratic Convention in
Chicago and I hope black Chicago turn it
out because kamla Harris is going to
push the same initiatives as Joe Biden
she's going to continue to purge Black
America with brown migrants she's going
to continue to do that let us be clear
the migrant crisis was a democratic
initiative so all these black people
going to run over to KLA Harris they
better keep in mind that the Democratic
agenda is to purge America of black with
brown migrants are we sure we want that
but I'm going be honest art no matter
how you look at it when you look at
Donald Trump wanting to give the police
complete immunity complete immunity
police can never be held responsible
again for criminal neglect Behavior
while carrying out their officer
duties we can't swallow that Donald
Trump will basically make Black America
a police state if he gives them complete
immunity at the same time you got the
Democrats taking care of every other
group in America but black people you
can't win art and when Negroes say who
do we vote for the lesser of the two
evils which one is the lesser of the two
which one is lesser I can't tell which
one is lesser they're both bad they're
both bad we know cona Harris don't like
black men because she made her whole
career locking them up she's married to
a white man and let me say this
art this could backfire on a Democratic
party I'mma tell you why to White
America Kamala Harris to them is Barack
Obama with a female's face even though
Obama has not endorsed her and I'mma Be
honest with you are that could be
politically motivated Barack Obama May
publicly be saying he doesn't endorse VP
kamla Harris for president of the United
States so it doesn't appear to the
American people that she will simply be
Barack Obama's puppet on strings in
other words that could be a chest move
I'mma tell the American public I don't
support her so it doesn't look like I'm
the one making all the decisions when
the truth of the matter is a kamla
Harris White House might be a Barack
Obama White House wearing a skirt
