when you say you you were in her video
you were a walk on ohop that's were you
were an extra and it up why you got play
that why you got let me feel big in the
in the show was an extra and all of a
sudden his lead
[Music]
man this is Star Talk special edition of
course I've got Gary O'Reilly Gary hey
and of course Chuck Nice Lord Chuck nice
that's right well over the years anytime
I'm at any special sort of celebrity
type event it could be a red carpet of
any kind or a premiere of a film and all
the actors show up uh if I'm there I
pull out my smartphone and I acquire
questions from celebrities on the spot
on the assumption that we all have
questions about the universe that they
just linger within you and how often are
you in the company of an
astrophysicist there's there's only
about 8,000 of us in the world mhm and
there's about 8 billion people so if you
ever find yourself in the same room with
an astrophysicist kidnap them that's the
time they're very
valuable great Ransom that's that's the
time to ask your questions so Gary you
accumulated them they've been they've
been in on on the shelf for a long time
they have for a while but got round to
curating them curating them thank you uh
you know having captured their Cosmic
curiosity well let's find out what it is
they want to know curious about yeah uh
first one let's start I'll start with
that and it's Sway in the mornings Sway
in the Morning great Serious XM mhm
that's an actual show it's not a like
direction right it could be so Sway in
the morning right it's not has a deep
question about us as a species so let's
hear it and let's find out what you
think to his question okay Neil let me
ask you a question I know um mankind are
meant to be nomadic in its original form
and Mankind has began to sat on this
planet Earth tens of thousands of years
ago uh when we talk about viruses uh
would it am I inaccurate and if I was to
say that mankind is a virus to this
planet Earth because of the damage and
destruction that is done to not only the
Earth but other people are we just ants
with Consciousness can you answer that
for me Neil what the hell is swayed
talking about I mean that question was
all over the place he started off what
he started off with nomadic human beings
which really I mean he said tens of
thousands but yeah that's pre
agriculture that's pre- agriculture
correct he's right about that I'm going
to give him that I'm going to give him
that star streeted go but but then from
there he went from being nomadic to
viruses are we a virus I'm trying to
figure out like is that because viruses
spread
and and we came out of the serengetti
and spread all over the Earth is that I
guess that's what you know yeah yeah
yeah so um so first of all uh yes
there's a lot of evolutionary features
we have for all the time we were human
until we settled right and a lot of
those features are just sort of dangling
there within us without any way to
manifest other than in weird ways mhm
okay and so you know why else would we
be intrigued by movie stars were it not
for the fact that there was a day where
the person who brought home the food was
like the most important person in all
the tribe you want to have babies with
that person if you didn't then you you
your babies wouldn't be that person to
have to to sustain the future of the
tribe so what is the modern version of
that is a person bigger than life on a
screen even though they ain't bringing
home the food but we don't know how to
react to that genetically other than by
how we were honed on the serengetti that
may explain why I want to have Keo
Reeves
baby
okay so so so there's leftover dangling
features okay so it I think we are not
alone as a species to spread where we
are okay right okay but he said nomadic
if you're nomadic you're here then you
go there usually you do that when you
run out of food and you want to go over
there you follow the herd and so but as
as an organism we have one priority and
that's to reproduce ourselves our
genetic code that's the primary priority
of any virus or any species any species
yeah if it didn't they're not a species
for very long right right they go
extinct fast right so um now the virus
part is we infect places kill it and
then move to another place leaving
behind a death and destruction then
we're much worse than viruses why
because the truly effective viruses uh
evolve to a place where they know how to
uh live parasitically a host they don't
eliminate the host to kill the host yeah
cuz if you kill the host the host
there's no way to spread the ger go
exactly you're killing the Golden Goose
right you know so that what by his uh uh
estimation we are far worse than a virus
okay we're just not smart enough to
realiz that there you go stupid virus
stupid viruses okay
sway the panel has there you go we're
dumbass viruses the panel concludes yes
we are as bad as viruses but worse and
plus we don't even know we virus so that
makes us stupid yeah wait a minute who
said that what what's oh man what's the
character's name Buddy Mr Anderson no no
of course that's the The Matrix I know
but what's what's his name Mr Smith Mr
Smith he's Smith yes the Smith Mr
Anderson and he he says to uh no he says
it to morphus Morpheus get your movie
straight dude you're on my show and you
can't remember the M wait a minute that
is the right movie it is but you don't
remember the name of the movie or the
character I remember the name of the
movie I didn't remember the character's
name all right next up who do we have
all right so staying with the theme of
Hollywood okay uh film director and
Hollywood Legend Robert
rer you know we all want to know where
we go after we pass pass away you know
know the heaven hell uh what happens and
I always thought you know Neil thinks of
us as we're all part of the cosmos so
since we're all part of the cosmos do we
then go back into the cosmos how does
that work where are all our atoms and
molecules where do they go I hope to God
that you answered him well Rob most of
us go back to the cosmos but you're
going to hell no that is not how I
answered him and I had to resist that
would have been awesome no it would not
have been that would have been so
awesome okay had that been a stupid
question I would have said Meathead what
do
you that was all in the family Archie
bunkers called Meathead that's that
that's this guy he played the son-in-law
okay there's a lot going on in that
question so first of all um nothing
enters or exits the universe it can
transform okay so I have spent my life
dining upon flora and Fa
to bring nourishment to my body in death
it is my choice to be buried so that
flora and FAA can dine upon me
completing the great circle of life
circle of life Simba
behold the circle of
life thank you
Mufasa so so that's my sort of angle on
that there are others who want to be
cremated yay and for me I'd rather keep
it the energy on Earth but if you want
to be cremated what happens is all the
energy that's contained in your
molecules because molecules by their
very existence contain energy in the
atomic bonds that connect them right
okay this is why anything Burns at all
you just say oh you're burning it where
do you think the energy came for it to
burn where do you think that comes from
you're breaking apart molecules they're
releasing energy and they're EXO thic
okay there it is that's your Chemistry
term for endothermic suck it in and
exothermic putting it out so if you get
cremated your body turns to heat you
heat the air the air rises through the
chimney that air then enters our
atmosphere right and it radiates
infrared into the atmosphere radiating
infrared back into space right moving at
the speed of light infrared photons so
if you want to live forever in the
universe then you'll be cremated and
your photons will be traveling across
the Galaxy if and and the universe
ultimately if you want to give back to
the Earth then you be buried and now
they have these caskets with like seeds
embedded they're like uh earn
biodegradable on totally yeah but
they're not just biodegradable no that's
for things to come and eat yeah that's
basically it yeah you are you are the
snack for yes it's not just it degrades
over time
they're actively they're turning you
into compost is what they're actively
tearing you up so so that's that's
what's going on in the um uh so when
when we die and your Consciousness we
want to believe that that continues if
you don't upload it to a computer these
are just neurosynaptic firings in your
brain which we know go away when you go
through a series of mini strokes you go
through Strokes oh now you don't know
who you are you can't speak the language
you you're you have dementia and to
believe somehow that your actual
Consciousness is still there to be
transported or transferred when we know
your brain just goes away uh that
requires leaps of faith that many people
have but not sort of atheistic scientist
where do we land in terms of a soul
that's kind of the point that's part of
the same part of the same Consciousness
question by the way they try to measure
the soul give to to their credit back
120 years ago when 130 years ago when
X-rays were discovered by wihelm
the German physicist and where he saw
the bones of his hand and his his rings
so the the hard material the bones and
the metal showed up on the photo and he
said oh my gosh and had immediate
medical applications of course so at the
time people said wait a minute if you
can see through the body maybe if we
x-ray you while you're dying you'll be
able to watch something come out of your
body don't want to be the volunteer for
that that's serious experiment to
volunteer for so they brought it into
the hospital and they found nothing
right yeah yeah see now uh as far as
going out to the universe or going into
the Earth my desire and this is in my
will my instructions for what to do with
me when I die I want to be cremated and
then I want the ashes from my create
cremation which at that point contain no
energy at all no energy at because all
of that people say these are my ashes
this is like the soot left over
that happened when it was burned but go
on but part of it is you that's in there
and I want plus I'm told they don't they
can't burn the bones so there's some
bone chips in there there's some bone
chips yeah but I don't want the bone
chips I just want the ashes and I want
you to take I want the ashes taken to
restaurants all around Manhattan and
just put little bits in pepper shakers
all over the city so that I can become a
part of everybody in New
York that is nasty and that's not even
true
yeah it's in your will right okay I'm
dead serious I'm mean nobody's going to
honor it cuz it's against the
law what from I found out that it's
against the law okay oh so you really
were planning to carry this out I want
that done yeah no just a couple pinches
not like a little pinch much not much
just a pinch and then you shake the
pepper shaker up and then I'm inside
okay I don't mean to brag but all the
restaurants I in eat in have pepper
Mills oh don't worry we'll get to them
too
mine just have pepper shaking I don't
know where you eat that's just SL that
means I just got a slide of 20 to a
waiter hello St talk averse Neil degrass
Tyson here your host of the Star Talk
podcast I'm here to announce that we
just open a brand new channel on YouTube
called Star Talk Plus and that's where
we're going to bring all kinds of
innovative
content that doesn't quite fit on our
Flagship Channel Channel but they will
involve experiments in what we create
what your reaction might be to what we
create and it's going to be our Skunk
Works as it were to borrow a term from
Aerospace so I look forward to sharing
all of this new content with you and
check it out if you have a chance all
right who do you got up next okay next
up singer and TV celebrity Kelly
Clarkson Kelly Clarkson americ
sweetheart we all love Kell Kelly
Clarkson do I have a friend of my niece
who declared that the last time
Americans agreed on anything right was
at was when she won American Idol
American Idol that may be uh that I hate
to say that could be true America's been
going downhill well in that case she
just totally screwed
up dog on Kelly claron ushering in the
age of division
what you got that's a burden to put on
the young lady anyway so I've been on
her show several times she has a
curiosity about I was even in one of her
music videos oh wait a minute yeah this
is new information oh you didn't know
about this please do tell this is a
music video was filmed around Columbus
Circle when she was taping in the time
then the Time Warner Center and so I was
invited to just be someone on the street
as she skips by right so she was
preloading the folks in the back rack in
the backdrop right and I was one of the
people pre-loaded and so when you say
you you were in her video you were a
walker oh that's you were you were an
extra and it up you got play that why
you got let me feel big in the in the
show was an extra and all of a sudden
he's lead man okay so we I've been on a
show many times and so this is one of
the times I managed to NAB a question
from her got this question about what a
phenomenon a phenomenon that occurs here
on Earth but she's wondering if it
occurs elsewhere listen to what okay
sure okay so Neil are there rainbows
anywhere else in the universe do they
exist o well we all know that rainbows
happen when unicorns
fart so okay the real question is are
there unicorns wa wait I thought
unicorns poop out ice cream multicolored
ice cream like neopolitan ice cream I I
don't even know what to do with that
man I hadn't heard the fart on I had I I
had heard unicorn fart is rainbows
that's where rainbows
what nursery rhyme did you get this from
I mean that's just science NE
science yeah okay okay all right so uh
so a rainbow okay of course sunlight
going through a raindrop yes and
refracting into the Raindrop and then
dispersing as it comes out so refract is
just simply the bending of light but
light when it goes from a lighter medium
into a heavier medium it actually
disperses so you go from white light and
you know what
happens the different colors of light
travel at different speeds in the medium
since they travel at different speeds
they say separate out and the blue
separates from the from the Indigo from
the the orange and the yellow and the
green they got their own lane they got
their own lane and so it refracts in
disperses and those then come out and if
you have a wall of of raindrops okay and
with the sun oriented properly basically
behind directly behind you then you see
a rainbow if you can reproduce that
anywhere in the universe you will get a
rainbow so the question is are there any
planets that have rain rain or some
other uh transparent liquid coming out
of the sky so how about when where
planets where there's liquid methane and
you have a methane rain would you get
the same thing that should that should
also give you a rainbow by the way we
also have moonbows okay that so this
would be Moonlight coming through you've
seen these yes coming through so I'm
thinking if moons make moon bows then
raindrop should be making Sun bows so I
recently experienced a new kind of
rainbow for me I was up flying in a
helicopter and I'll have to add to this
um didn't have any doors on it which was
proper scary for someone who's scared of
heights and I saw a circular rainbow
beneath
me and that's the first time I didn't
even know that they existed okay this is
an amazing fact why are you in a
helicopter without
doors maybe the pilot thought it was a
thrill for me and my White
Knuckles okay I was abely a num here are
two facts my legs out the side here are
two facts okay all Rainbows are complete
circles oh fact number one fact number
two all Rainbows are a series of
rainbows only occasionally do you ever
get to see the second of them okay
there's the primary rainbow which we all
see when we see a rainbow then there's a
second there's a t third and a fourth
and they're dimmer and dimmer and dimmer
and typically in daylight you don't
notice them okay so not only that
wherever the rainbow is you are in the
exact line between that rainbow and the
source of light creating it such as the
Sun Well when you're on the ground and
it's raining and the sun is directly
overhead you would have a rainbow
beneath your feet but that's not where
that's not the configuration of the
optics for you yeah okay so the sun has
to be low enough for the top of the
rainbow to then show up in the sky then
you say the rainbow's in the sky but if
you're well above the whole thing yep
which we were then the the sun is behind
you you're up above the sun is behind
you and you can see the entire circle of
the rainbow and it's 20 if I remember
correctly
222° in radius every single every single
rainbow is exactly the same size it's
interesting because the pilot as much as
he was a thrill seeker said right you're
going to get a real rainbow experience
coming up here now so he saw the rain MH
and he he on purpose he did exactly what
he needed to do to give us that
experience on purpose yeah so what you
didn't maybe you didn't know to look for
the second rainbow Chuck you remember uh
early internet there was this guy who
was hiking in wherever this double
rainbow the Double Rainbow Guy you
remember remember that oh my
God it's a double rainbow that was the
guy oh my God I'm so high no no that he
had a basically religious experience yes
he was God and he started tearing I me
you don't see him you only hear him but
he's
clearly so that's what you're hearing
yeah he's prostrate he's on the he's
he's tearing up don't get out much what
does this and he says what does this
mean what it mean and I had to I'm sorry
I had to like reply to that and I said
this is what happens to you if you've
never had a class in
physics yeah well you see natural
phenomena and think it's divine yes but
it's very n it's this this is how
rainbows work he was also tripping balls
on mushrooms how do you
know no I'm dead serious that's what
came out later if you haven't seen it I
mean it's now like internet archive
YouTube archive Double Rainbow Guy
rainbow guy and he's always worth it
yeah it's just physics dude but then it
came out later like he did an interview
or something he was like I was out of my
mind on mushrooms that happened yeah
yeah so which is cool I mean I love it I
love it right so so so and they're all
the same size and every rainbow is
unique to
you especially when you make them with a
garden hose which is what we used to do
as kids okay you put the garden hose on
um shower and then you turn it hose
straight up and you put the shower in
the air and then it's got to be a sunny
day of course and you make a rain in my
housing projects we didn't have garden
hoses why you got to make me feel bad
about my upbringing man I'm just
saying the Castle Hill housing project
we didn't have a backyard with an
adjustable
hose I can't help my B up what kind of
hood are you
from no the point is each rainbow is in
Optics just for you right so every
rainbow is exactly face on you've never
seen a rainbow add an angle to your
sight line have you ever noticed that
try to notice next time I have so
because of that if you walk towards a
rainbow it will move because it's always
the same angular size it will move
farther away from you until you are in
the rain and it's not and you can't see
it right okay you can chase it out of
the rain and because it's always face on
to you and at the same distance to you
optically uh that is the same angle you
can never go to the end of the rainbow
which makes it an excellent place to
hide gold exactly so so Kelly there's uh
wherever there is rain and
sunshine there's a rainbow okay all
right ever in the universe that OCC
that's cool so it might be a methane bow
or a methane bow if yeah or ammonia bow
an ammonia bow yeah yeah ammonia is a
liquid and and a lot of
overlapping uh temperature range as
water so and ammonia doesn't have rare
ingredients it's it's it's nitrogen and
hydrogen NH3 it going to give us the
similar colors colorways we get in Earth
rainbows or is it going to skew
differently no it depends on what the
color source is so if it's our son it's
going in there with Roy G Biv right
white light white Ro red orange yellow
green blue indigo violet all right you
got it good one Kelly all right so next
up actor comedian Dax sheeper Dax
Shephard yeah so Dax Dax is kind of like
not quite remembering an explanation you
gave to him about aerodynamics so he's
heing out for another one so Dax is
married to Kristen Bell yeah right right
so I met her once at Comic Con and I met
him later and I was on his podcast right
in his like garage apartment in his
backyard in Los Angeles nice yeah so I
said I got you know if I'm gonna be on
his podcast he gotta give me give me a
question for my shelf you have a hose
with variable
setting it was near the swimming pool
yes and his swimm pool wasn't as big as
Chuck's swimming pool in his backyard
give to me D Shephard Neil I have a
question it's about lift now I said the
other day on the show that lifts caused
by the shape of the wing being longer on
the top than the bottom or vice versa
that the air splits and travels faster
so that makes it lighter and then people
said I don't think you have that right
so I want to know how does lip work just
to be clear it matters more that an
airplane wing is a wing than what its
precise shape is in crosssection
because AE if it if it moves at the at
the proper angle upwards with its nose
up the air coming at it will just lift
it okay just regardless of the shap I
just saying I'm thinking about the old
bip planes how they used to have that
angle and rest oh yeah right right yeah
the the the plane horizontal the the the
good good memory there yeah from those
photos the horizontally parked plane the
wings are pitched upwards angled upwards
okay and it's how I saw this done once
probably other planes can do it the F16
fighter jet can actually fly upside down
and all you have to do is make sure that
it's angle into the wind your Tom Cruz
or that its angle into the wind gives
enough lift to the bottom of the plane
so you get lift for free just doing that
all right in addition you have this beri
effect okay where you have a mass of air
the wing splits the air and the air
going above the curv top travels
faster than the air on the bottom to
catch up with this what was on the
bottom and if you have faster moving air
there's less pressure there and I I can
do that with this here oh I know you're
going okay it's this experiment here
where I just have a a ribbon of paper
and I can blow across the top of it
that'll be faster moving air than than
what's on the
bottom and the bottom when I do that the
bottom just lifts it straight up so it's
the speed of the air so there's still
some debate about the
relative um value of each of
those contributing to the total uh lift
of the plane I've seen people argue
about this but I can say that both plays
a role and if you sit over the wing when
the plane is either taking off or
Landing it wants the maximum lift it
possibly can right can have because it's
not it's not going 500 Miles hour yet
okay so whatever speed with all the all
with your fat ass on the thing and
everybody's luggage it needs as much
lift as it can so the wing on takeoff
and on Landing is as large as possible
the wing ex extends the flaps and take a
look next time okay it extends it gives
it more lift than it otherwise would
have and then as it approaches speed the
wing shrinks back right same thing with
the F-16 uh that's the F1 any of the
suic planes they all they all when they
go suic they the area they don't they
don't need it cuz they're going so fast
what's with the nose with a supersonic
you're talking no you're talking about
you're talking
about no the nose is because the nose is
so long the pilot can't see the the
runway okay that's the only reason for
this so the nose goes down so we can see
where the hell it's going right also on
the bigger jets in the back of the plane
do you see it angles up to the tail have
you ever seen that you know what that
angle is it has to be there because when
it takes off you don't want to drag the
drag the bottom of the back of the plane
it has to clear the runway when it
angles to increase the the the lift to
go up when you say the pilot says Get
the Hell get the nose the hell out of
the way I want I want him to do it in
that pilot voice they go to Pilot School
they learn how to the pilot voice yeah I
went to planetarium school and you get
to talk like this in the dome of a
planetarium welcome to the universe
that's planetarium school I know but
it's the same thing today I'm your
captain and he's got this calming very
calm even though like you're about to
fly into the side of a mountain they all
sound the same it's just like like when
you turn on NPR and all the people no
matter what NPR they all sound the same
that's that's what the pilots are you
ever wanted one of your questions on the
universe answered we all have questions
about the universe black holes to
quazars quantum entanglement wormholes
there is no end to the depths of cosmic
curiosity well the ENT level of patreon
membership with Star Talk gets you just
that I think it starts at $5 a month you
have access to the question line that
reaches our Cosmic query programming and
not only that we produce a special
Cosmic
queries installment just for patreon
members if you weren't the director of
the Hayden planetarium what do you think
you would be doing what okay but this
have to Another Universe it wouldn't
happen in this universe okay I'd be I'd
be a a songwriter for Broadway musicals
oo so that's the entry level and the
perks ascend from there uh there's a
level in fact where we send you a an
autographed copy of one of my latest
books uh right now it's Star Messenger
Cosmic perspectives on civilization and
it's signed with my fancy fountain pen
with purple ink
so I invite you to just check the link
below and all of that money goes to our
ability to experiment with new ways of
bringing the universe down to earth so
thank you for those who have already
joined and we welcome others to
participate in this Grand Adventure of
what it is to bring the universe down to
earth as always keep looking up next up
um oh gosh yes star of Curb Your
Enthusiasm JB smooth JB smooth J he's
curios okay I first met him at he had a
uh it was a dinner and I forgot the name
of his show it was like you'd have
dinner with him five guys around the
table around the table and we it was a
real food cameras everywhere and first
time I met Jerry Cooney okay by the way
the boxer the boxer I remember when he
was active I didn't know who he was at
the table I kind of recognized him but I
kind of didn't let me tell you something
as many times as he'd been B up he
didn't know who he
was yeah my boy's been he been pummeled
by a lot of folk in the past so I do not
have small
hands know okay I don't have small hands
so so I'm accustomed to what other hands
feel like when I shake them I shook this
man's hand my hand I felt like like like
I child hand and I said who is this guy
and that was reminded he was Jerry
Cooney those giant meat hooks meat hook
hands so he was at the table JB SM was
there and we we just chilled nice and so
so then then I had a cameo on Kevin
Hart's house husbands of of Hollywood
real house husbands yeah real house HB
of Hollywood I had a cameo and he I
think he's a regular and so I bumped
into him in the in the in the make hair
and makeup and he still got someone
working on his head he still got the the
the smok on whatever you call it when
you're there and I said I gotta get I
gotta get a question from him so here so
here it is hey Neil it's your guy JB
smooth you know me man I'm always full
of questions man I'm also a world
traveler you know in my mind I'm also a
space traveler I've been everywhere all
the planets Nu Way all that good stuff
you know I should have been on Mars
right now with with that damn Rover the
space rover I I could have been driving
that thing around anyway here's my
question I saw a movie I was turning the
channel the other day and I saw Superman
right and Lis L Lis Lane had died
and and the man went around the earth uh
counterclockwise I
think maybe 100 times in a
row
Neil is it possible for anything who can
break the sound barrier to Go reverse of
the Earth's rotation and change time and
go back and save a life I need to know
Neil Neil s me
cos M want to
know that that wasn't so much a question
as a distress flare it was a a distress
call right help
me okay that's an iconic scene in the
original Superman the movie right and
that was
197 something8 maybe I don't know
Christopher Reeves Christopher Reeves
yeah we on several of them but that was
the first one yeah whenever that was
might have been a couple years earlier
but anyhow in that film Lois Lane dies
and she's a love interest of his and
he's very upset and he decides to change
the direction of time right okay so he
gets up and flies backwards around the
Earth's direction of rotation MH and
apparently that creates enough sort of
friction I guess between his force field
and Earth's that Earth slows down stops
and reverses yeah okay yeah then he goes
back to before Lois Lane dies but but
now he has to jump start Earth again
because that's how he left it but now he
starts it at an earlier moment in time
so he does this then
reverses okay now it's earlier than Lois
Lane dies he goes back saves Lois Lane
and there it is I I think that that is
definitely doable you think so oh God
yes that it has to be okay and I have to
say not a chance okay let's assume it's
got to be let's assume it is doable
which it isn't but let's assume it is it
is if if you stop the rotation of the
earth right anything not seat belted to
the solid earth right will slide du East
at 800 miles an hour 1,000 miles at the
equator 800 miles where we are a little
slower near Santa Claus the entire all
right so so there's a hiccup okay the
the entire North and South Atlantic
Ocean will walk wash onto Europe and
Africa the entire Pacific Ocean will
wash onto North and South America and
that act would have killed billions of
people all worth it for
low cuz she's such a charmer worth it
for lowest Lane think there's a surf
there's a surf
event really proper surf event for that
so he would have killed billions yeah
yeah so that's first of all second the
flow of time on Earth is unrelated to
what direction we happen to rotate yeah
aren't there planets that rotate in a
opposite direction Venus among them
right so the rotation direction there
are other people think if you stop
rotation we'll all float right no this
this people need they think the rotation
of the earth is actually sticking us to
the Earth because of centrifugals the
opposite if you're at the Equator the
spinning of the earth makes you a little
lighter because it wants to fling you
off you're few ounces lighter on the
equator than you are at higher going if
it's just a
few you weigh less but but you'll still
be as fat as you were just all that fat
together will show up Less on on the
scale that's all you will look exactly
the same exactly okay why ruin that
thought okay but he's Superman and so
we'll give him I'll cut him give you
give him a break I'll give him a hle
pass on that one memorable scene it was
very memorable among it was inventive
for for for movie and it was using
special effects of nobody had even
considered at that point in its day and
we got to end here but let me just say
that I've met Superman oh really did you
know I've met Superman do
now now your next question is supposed
to be what how did you mean Superman no
no which one which Superman oh which
Super see there's only one Superman and
that's the one I met there you go okay
so that's the real Superman I met the
real Superman that's the that's the guy
in the comics in the comics I am in the
rest of them are all pale imitations I
am in Action Comics 14 yes you telephone
boost
and so uh Superman visits the Hayden
planetarium he he comes to my place here
and we we we talk about I won't I won't
give away the story that'd be so funny
if you came out as his arch nemesis
black science black science
man wait wait if just I think I have a
copy of it hold on here hold on right so
you have so I have in my
hands this is Action Comics for
okay and this is Superman why don't you
keep that in a plastic sleeve what what
you're supposed to keep it in a plastic
maybe I have more than one of these oh
okay because I'm in it this is not the
last one that exists in the universe a
plastic so one of the stories he comes
to the Planetarium so that we can put
bring together all of our electronics
and our computers to witness in the sky
the destruction of Krypton oh super
because that light was just then
reaching
Earth and so mans a little morbid huh
yeah
yeah so here's the rose Center for Earth
and space right there and he comes to
visit
and there it is can I see I want to do a
dramatic reading you want to do I'm do a
quick dramatic reading okay here we go
all right p on on the other page what
okay here we go here it goes um uh
is this Neil okay no he uh yeah so well
it starts over here he says Thank you
Lisa but our guest is busy A man is a
busy man let him do what he came here to
do Dr Tyson that was Superman okay and
he says he sounds excited tonight of all
night Superman please call me
Neil that's awesome that's awesome and
then Neil oh my god look how how much
they made Neil look like Billy D
Williams it's amazing this is great okay
so then they walk over to a control room
and Superman is being escorted by Neil
and he says we've arranged something
special tonight usually when you visit
the best we can do is draw inferences
from the fluctuations in Starlight from
stars in the core of this constellation
but this time data from telescopes all
over the world are being fed right here
and then Superman says all over that
must have been
huge I'm telling you that's what people
don't know that's how the real Superman
in the comments that's how he talks
that's what makes him even more Super
than been Superman cuz when you talk
when he shows up he's like like you know
he's just like hey is everything okay
guys
okay
okay so then all uh and then Neil says
please after all you've done for the
world the whole astrophysics Community
felt it was the least that they could do
and then Superman goes I
I oh gez
thanks um so so I when they called me up
and they said we can we they first
wanted permission to film here and then
they called me back and say can we p
betay you and what am I going to say no
to that you know that's not a no that's
not a no question right so anyway so I
have actually met Superman and this was
a that's super cool yeah all right all
right dude that's all we have time for
we had more though right okay we got do
this we'll do this again we'll got to do
it again totally do this again any so
this has been Star Talk special edition
of course it was Gary and Chuck thanks
for doing this great I enjoy this format
and until next time this is Neil degrass
Tyson keep looking up
[Music]
a
