hi there welcome to chapter 5 lesson 10
use substitution and more specifically
something we call the general power rule
now the general power rule is something
that we found when we did derivatives
but we're gonna see that we can actually
think of this backwards and think of the
the antiderivative rule that's
associated with it now this is a pretty
big topic we're getting into a few
substitution in fact I'm gonna spend the
next two lessons after this one talking
about it and the reason why is because
if you remember when we learnt a role
for derivatives that was sort of a
complicated idea you know to apply and
it takes some time to sort of absorb it
and get used to it what what that means
what we're gonna do now what you
substitution is is the idea of thinking
backwards through a chain rule problem
okay so similarly we're gonna want to
spend a little bit of time to make sure
we fully understand this idea so to help
us out with this I want to work through
this one example here I have all the
work for us but if I were to find this
antiderivative here well that might be
hard you know what would I would
normally do is I'd want to multiply
everything out get it written as like
one long polynomial and then do the
antiderivative term by term by using
power rule but I can't find the
antiderivative directly because there's
this product here you know we have this
parentheses we have a square here this
is not in a form that I can use power
rule for exactly but what we're gonna
practice is trying to do this directly
without having to multiply it all out in
other words what we have here in
parentheses is something we have a
function here and it's squared and the
question is is can I still do like a
power rule here can I add 1 to that
exponent and divide by it and we sort of
can if we can fit the pattern and so
what we're gonna do is we're gonna
rewrite this into sort of a simpler
notational form I'm gonna say let's let
u equal that x squared plus 2 so that
like inner function there on the inside
of the parentheses let's just call that
x squared plus 2 equal to u if we did
that well if u is equal to x squared
plus 2 then we'd have to say that the
derivative du u DX is actually that
equal to 2x right that's just the
derivative right that follows directly
here
from derivative power rule and if I were
to solve for D u now this is sort of new
before us is that this DX we can kind of
think of this like a fraction and
multiply it to the other side it's
actually what's so great about liveness
notation this notation of writing D u
over DX it reminds us that derivatives
are really like a fraction it's a change
in U over a change in X and so we can
split them up here and we can use
Leibniz notation here to kind of solve
for what D you should be now I want to
take a look at this because if we
replace the inside here with you notice
we have a 2x we have a DX that's my d
you in fact I can regroup those together
I'll move those all to the right to X DX
that's my D u all right and then that x
squared plus 2 you know that's really on
the inside here we can replace that with
the U its to get a u squared now if I
can do this what we can rewrite this
integral as is just u squared to you now
if I had given you this problem no
problem right that would have been easy
this is a power rule we just add 1 to
the exponent and divide by it
all right fact that antiderivative would
be 1/3 u cubed plus C now the last thing
I would do that is I remind you that U
is actually equal to x squared plus 2 I
would plug that back in and this is
actually my answer right here now let's
just go ahead and double check this if I
were to find the derivative of this this
would be a general power rule we have
one third and we have something to the
three power right one-third is like
smiley face cubed this is a power rule
it's what we call a general power rule
instead of having an X in here we have a
function of X the 3 would come down if
we find the derivative we cancel out
we'd get x squared plus 2 to the 2 power
we subtract 1 but then there'd be a
chain rule we'd have to multiply by the
derivative of the inside we get 2x and
that's what we started with here that 2x
was actually a result then of the chain
rule and so by doing a u substitution
here by rewriting this in terms of U we
were able to think backwards through
that chain rule and figure out what the
antiderivative should be directly
alright and so this is what we call the
general power rule for anti derivatives
basically it says if we can rewrite this
as U to some power D u we can just treat
it like a power rule then add 1 to the
exponent divide
by now the trick here is gonna be to
figure out what should you equal so
we're gonna need some practice with that
let's take a look at number one here at
number one I say we have x squared plus
one all squared and we have 2x DX
now instead of multiplying this all out
what I'm gonna look for is a good way to
start maybe you might be looking inside
parentheses for inner functions like x
squared plus one is a possibility but so
is also 2x now in this case it's very
similar to the one that we just looked
at we want to set our u equal to that x
squared plus one now
why do we want to do that to help us
understand that let's find the
derivative which is 2x and what we're
gonna do is we're going to move this DX
to the other side here so we're gonna
get D U is equal to 2x DX alright so
this is an important line of work and so
is this one here this D U because we're
gonna use these for our substitution or
u substitution so U is equal to x
squared plus one so let's go ahead and
start by writing that instead of writing
x squared plus one or write u squared
and then the rest of this
that's my D u right there right we can
replace that 2x DX with a D U and now
this looks familiar this looks like a
power rule u squared so we add 1 to the
exponent we get u cubed we divide by it
so we have 1/3 u cubed plus C now the
only thing I do now is you gotta imagine
this is sort of a weird answer if I ask
you what is the antiderivative of a
function of X and I give you a function
of U that doesn't quite make sense so we
want to write this as a function of X we
got a plug are you back in so U is equal
to x squared plus 1 plug that back in
and that's my answer and we can go ahead
and double check this the derivative of
this the 3 would come down and cancel
we'd get x squared plus 1 squared would
be a chain rule a 2 X and the derivative
of C would be 0 that is exactly what we
started with so we know we got a correct
answer here okay
so how did we know that you should equal
x squared plus 1 one thing I want to
point out is we're not just finding what
you should be we're also finding out
what D you should be the derivative of
that alright so when I see that I have
you and I X square plus 1 and I also
have its derivative right there 2x
that's like a sign that maybe you should
equal x squared plus 1 because I do have
the D you right there let's take a look
at another one number two now this is
one that even if I want to multiply this
out I actually can't really do much with
this and I can't do just a power rule we
need this new method for this one what
do you think you should be well it's got
to be an inner function somehow and it
could be a 3x squared but if I look
inside the square root here there's not
parentheses around it but there is a
group there and that's X cubed plus one
now if you double check if that were my
you notice what D would be would be the
derivative right and we actually have
that here as well that's a sign that
this has got to be a good u substitution
so the derivative D u DX is equal to 3x
squared in fact and the future I'm just
going to do this in one step we know D u
DX we know DX is going to move to the
other side so let me just go ahead and
do that 3x squared DX
ok we'll go ahead and move that over
right away and so we can have we see
that we have everything that we need
here we have let me skip ahead to that
square root here under the square root
we have our you that's why we chose you
equal to XQ plus 1 and everything else I
have left the 3x squared and the DX
that's really my D you I'll just pull
that out to the right here do you so
this is a problem that I know how to
solve this is the same as saying au to
the one-half power that's a power well
we can say that's if I do the
antiderivative here this will be U to
the you gotta add 1 so 3 over 2 power we
divide by 3 over to that but that's the
same as saying times 2 over 3 I wanna
say plus C I guess I didn't really need
those square brackets here we just have
a 2/3 and we have u to the 3 over 2 but
we're gonna replace U with what it
originally was X cubed plus 1 plus C and
this is my final answer
and so we can see what we're doing here
is we're thinking backwards through a
chain rule backwards through that
general power rule by using a you to
help us now sometimes these can get a
little more complicated if I look at
number three here we might notice we
have a very similar problem here
where you we might say is gonna be x
squared plus one but there is a problem
when I find the derivative D u DX we're
gonna get 2x and again we'll move the DX
over here we can see a little bit of a
problem you can't we we have X but and
we have DX but we don't have the two
we're missing that two aren't we so what
can I do here
well one thing that we could try to do
is we could create it to this is a trick
that we often use in math is if we need
something we just created but you can't
create two for no reason right if I
create a two there let me write this out
here we have X we have x squared plus
one squared DX so let me do this in
another color if I create a two there I
would also have to create maybe like a
one over two to make it true you know I
can't just multiply by two for no reason
but I can if I also multiply by one half
and this is the trick here because then
we get to X DX and we also have this
extra one-half but what I can do is
since it is just a constant multiple so
I can factor that constant out of the
integral so let me write this a little
more clearly here we have one-half out
front now the 2x DX will replace in a
minute but if I skip ahead to the x
squared plus one squared I can replace
that with a you the rest of this this 2x
DX that's gonna be my D U and so again
what we can see here is this U is really
an x squared plus one and this D U is
really a 2x DX I've just replaced them
now doing a u substitution but if I were
to give you this integral on one half u
squared to you I would just say that oh
that's easy that's a power rule we'd add
1 to that exponent so we get U to the 3
power we divide by it and we have a + C
finally this is gonna become a 1 over 6
u cubed + C and let's go ahead and
replace the U this is an x squared + 1
that goes in there that's my final
answer
what about number 4 what do you think
you should be here as we choose our U we
look for inner functions and we also
look to not just for what u is but we
also look for its derivative to be in
there also now we might find based on
our number two similar example here that
maybe X cubed plus 1 over
here the derivative would be 3x squared
DX and we almost have that don't wait we
just need to create a three here what if
I create a three I also have to create a
1/3 we've got to create both of these
right and the 1/3 what we'll factor out
at the interval we can do that so we
really have here then it's a 1/3
antiderivative of at least skip ahead to
that square root square root of we'll
replace that with a you now and what I
have left that 3x squared DX is really
my D U and this looks like something I
know how to find the antiderivative
above because that's really u to the
one-half power so we get u to the
three-halves power when we add one we
divide by it so we're really multiplying
by a two-thirds we get a plus C finally
I can multiply the fractions together we
get a 2 on top right one times two on
the bottom three times three is nine we
get U to the 3 over 2 power plus C and
let's replace u X cubed plus 1 goes in
final answer all right I do have one
last one here that'll be a bit of a
challenge we can try to find out what
you use gonna equal again we don't have
quotient rule for antiderivative so we
do have to rewrite this somehow and
there's only a few possibilities maybe
it's 2x squared
maybe it's X cube minus 1 in this case
as we look for what you should be we're
also thinking about its derivative and
you might be thinking about let's try to
make it that executes minus 1 that is an
inner function it's in the square root
but we're gonna run into it maybe a
little problem here this should be a 3x
squared DX but that's not what we have
we almost have it we have a 2x squared
DX
so my recommendation here is we can
still do this problem but let's factor
that 2 out I like to factor that two out
that way I can see let's a cube them
just a x squared DX they're right that
way I can think about what needs to be
in front of that x squared and we know
it has to be a 3 let me do this in
another color here if I create a 3 there
because I need it I also have to create
a 1 over 3 but I'll factor that out all
right so we have a 1 over 3 out front as
well so really out front there's already
a 2 that I factored out that's really a
2 over 3
and we have on the bottom here's a
square root of let's go ahead to replace
that that's you that's usually where I
start as I replace to you right away and
on top there that 3x squared DX that's
actually my D you I'll go ahead and pull
it out to the side here and write a 1 on
top so that D U is really my 3x squared
DX I'll just pull it out to the side do
I know how to find this antiderivative
this is a big question because even
though this is a correct way to rewrite
it this only helps me if I can actually
know how to find the antiderivative
sometimes you can rewrite it and doesn't
help you because you still don't know
how to find the antiderivative but this
is what I can do if I rewrite it again
I can write this as a power this is
really you to the what power it should
be a negative 1/2 and that is something
I can use power rule for add one to the
exponent so we get a positive 1/2
divided by it so we get 2 over 1 is
really what we have times 2 here 2 over
1 right I'll just write x 2 and finally
we also have a plus C and the last thing
I'm going to do is I'm going to plug my
u Beckett now 2 times 2/3 we can combine
these together this is really 2 over 1
right so it's going to become a 4 over 3
we have U to the one-half plus C so u we
can replace with an X cubed minus 1 and
that is my final answer
