hi there welcome to Chapter five less
than 12 and when today we're gonna
finish up our u-substitution lesson here
with definite integrals
now this lesson is gonna look very
familiar to what we started off with
back was it less than 10 when we were
doing and the antiderivative with you
substitutions here we have a very
similar example here but there's one key
difference today we're looking at
definite integrals and we're gonna have
these little numbers these lower limits
of integration the upper limits of
integration or lower bound and upper
bound and how do we handle that well in
this case if I were doing an
antiderivative
we're probably used to doing this at
this point now where we look inside the
parentheses we find you should equal
maybe x squared plus 2 notice D you the
derivative of that is right there so
this is really a u squared to you but
something happens in this next step as I
do my substitution we can see I changed
these numbers the lower bound
the upper bound changed and the question
is why why did that change because back
here this was x equals 1/2 x equals 2
right because this is with respect to x
but once we change this to you it's now
with respect to you which means whatever
values go here they need to be u values
and so I'm what I'm basically saying is
that that's u equals 3 and y equals 6
but how did I get those numbers let's
come back to this for a moment
we knew that X was equal to 1 right here
if X is equal to 1 what should you be
well plug it in we created the
definition here if X is 1 we plug it in
and get 1 squared plus 2 that's 3 all
right so you would equal 3 and that's
exactly where that comes from next if
we're gonna take this x equals 2 and
plug it in 2 squared plus 2 so 4 plus 2
is 6 and that's where that 6 comes from
so basically what this is a reminder of
is when we change everything in terms of
U we can't forget about the those tiny
little numbers there the lower and upper
limits of integration we need to change
those into u values as well and once we
do that now we get this integral and I
just want to point out whatever this
equals we haven't figured it out yet
it's just gonna be some number you could
sort of think of it as area under a
curve but it's gonna be a number there's
no plus C here
there's no X variable in our final
answer it's gonna be a constant and it's
gonna be the exact same constant as this
one here or whatever this equals will be
the exact same constant the reason I
mentioned that is because once we do an
antiderivative here which is a pretty
simple one we add 1 to the exponent we
divide by it we do not need to plug you
back in in fact we've already changed
everything in terms of U we can
basically just reset our minds here and
just figure out what is the answer to
this definite integral whatever that
number is will be the correct answer so
from here we plug 6 in we plug 3 and
then we're gonna subtract those results
so 6 goes in 6 cubed divided by 3 is
going to be a 72 and 3 cubed that's 27
over 3 is going to be at 9 and us will
get subtract 72 minus 9 again 63 and
that will be my final answer at no point
did I need to plug the x squared plus 2
back in once I changed everything to you
I could just figure out what that
integral equals and that's my answer
okay all right so let's take a look at a
few examples here and see if we can get
the big idea number one we have an
integral from 0 to 1 we have X we have
parentheses x squared plus 1 all cubed
and this is gonna start to feel like the
kind of problems we've been doing here
we're gonna set u equal to what's the
the function inside here should be an x
squared plus 1 I think let's just check
it outthe ODU would be 2 X DX now we
don't exactly have that what are we
missing well we can see that there
should be a 2 there so we'll create it
and we'll create a 1 over 2 as well
so typically my u substitution would
look something like this we'd have u to
the 3 power we'd have D U but there's
one big difference here this isn't 0 & 1
anymore because those were X values that
was x equals 0 and x equals 1 what we
need are the U values now so let's
figure it out if x is 0 what's u let's
plug it in if x is 0 u should equal 1 if
X is equal to 1 plug it in you get 1
squared plus 1 that's going to be 2 so I
need to change these into u values as
well this is gonna be if you make some
mistake on this promise is probably the
most likely place you'll make a mistake
is you'll forget to change these limits
of integration you'll keep using the
original 0 and 1
all right so let's go ahead and find the
antiderivative we add one to the
exponent so that's to the fourth divided
by it and then we're going to plug two
in one and we're just gonna plug it in
exactly you know what we have here
there's one more thing I'm gonna do here
though before I get started I'm actually
gonna factor that 1/4 out this is going
to be 1 over 8 then right we multiply
those together now let's go ahead and is
I find this is a nice little step to
make the fraction math here a little
little easier I think we put 2 in to the
fourth is 16 minus 1 to the fourth is 1
there's gonna be a 15 it's going to be
in the end here 15 over 8 is our final
answer there's no plus C there's no X
there's no need to plug you back in ok
once we change everything in terms of U
we can just evaluate it let's see if we
can do number two now what do you think
you should equal in this case unless we
want to multiply this out we want to
choose you to be that inner function
here x cubed plus a we know it's the
right choice because the D you the
derivative is gonna be a 3x squared and
we know that even though we don't have 3
we do have the more important thing
there which is the x squared the
constant the 3 is something we can
always create create a 3 create a 1 over
3 and we should be able to do a
u-substitution so we're gonna have you
to the 2 power we're gonna have D you
let's plug in if X is negative 2 we got
to change that negative 2 goes in all
right if this negative 2 goes in what do
we get well that's negative 8 plus 8
that's 0 next we're gonna plug 1 in 1
plus not 8 is 9 and let's go ahead and
find this answer here we do an
antiderivative so we get u cubed we
divide by 3 we plug in 9 we plug in 0 we
subtract now again I could factor out
this 1/3 here that's gonna be a 1 over 9
if I do that I'm just plugging 9 + 9
cubed minus 0 cubed and you might know
what that is you might not it's a little
bit of a calculation if you don't but
I'll point out here that we could just
cancel out one of those 9s here and it's
really just 9 squared isn't it so this
is gonna be an 81 you can actually
simplify the math a little
that way let's take a look at number
three
number three again we don't have a
quotient rule and we need to rewrite
this somehow and one of the things is if
instead of having this function of X
here if we just had an X we could have
rewritten this as a power rule that
square root on the bottom is really like
a negative 1/2 power we are eventually
going to do something similar this is
like a power rule problem but we don't
have X there we have a function of X so
we're gonna say u equal to that inner
function of X 1 minus 3x do you is what
derivative should be negative 3 DX and
what are we missing here well let's see
we can create that negative 3 no problem
I just have to create a negative 1 over
3 as well I'll bring that out front so
we get negative 1 over 3 in front we get
square root of U on the bottom and the D
U I'll just pull out to the right side
here and let me just rewrite this one
more time because it's gonna be helpful
to rewrite this as a power isn't it you
can write this as u to a negative 1/2
power and now we can do power rule power
rule says we add 1 to the exponent so
that's positive 1/2 divided by it so
that's really times 2 over 1 and what if
I've been doing I've been forgetting my
limits of integration now we don't want
to forget about these we do want to
change them if X is equal to let's start
at the bottom one here if X is equal to
negative 1 plug it in we're gonna get 1
minus negative 3 times negative 1 so
that's really this is gonna be 1 plus 3
that's 4 down there next we put 0 in
we're gonna get a 1 here in fact if you
wanted I know it's a little bit strange
they have the bigger number on the
bottom and the smaller number on top
here if you really wanted to switch
these around you could we just have to
create a negative sign which would turn
this positive if you want to do that go
ahead I usually do I want to show you
though that this will work even if we
don't if I put a 1 in and a 4 in this
will still come out to be the same
answer and let's see what we get let's
go ahead and factor that 2 out by the
way I just 2 can factor out and factors
out to the top so if we factor that out
we just have u to the one-half left so
that's going to be a 1 to the 1/2 right
that's really a square root
- four - the one I have that square root
of four is two well we'll see as we get
a negative one inside times the negative
tooth there's gonna be a positive
two-thirds okay this is the same answer
we would have gotten if we had switched
the lower bound and upper bound by
creating a negative sign right but
basically making this positive here all
right let's take a look at number four
now number four looks pretty complicated
doesn't it one of the things I'm
thinking about doing is I could multiply
this all out I could maybe split it up
it's gonna be pretty complicated here
the the more obvious thing to me anyway
seems to be what there's parentheses
there even though there's square root
there there is a function inside of the
square root - but it's just X remember
we don't ever set u equal to just X so
what I'm really looking at is what's
inside the parentheses right here and
that's gonna be square root of x - 1
imagine that what would the derivative
beam we know that this is really a 1/2
power right so this is gonna be 1/2 X -
a negative 1/2 DX and let's go ahead and
simplify that that's 1 over 2 X - a
positive 1/2 power
now if you look carefully we sort of see
that happening here don't we let me show
you what I'm talking about
let's take instead of dividing by square
root of x let's sort of split this up
here we have square root of x - 1 all
squared and x the we can say instead of
dividing by square root of x we can say
times its reciprocal and let me just
rewrite this a little bit here this is X
to the 1/2 part can you see that all
we're missing is a 2 right here
right and then I have this and if I
create that 2 on the bottom be very
careful here I also have to create a 2
on the top okay this is a 2 on the
bottom this is technically like saying
times a 1/2 power so we do need to
create a 2 out here we create a 2 on the
bottom and create a 2 on the top we
factor the 2 on top out I forgot my DX
here as well now I have my D u so we
have - we have an antiderivative of this
is gonna be u squared du u this is
really just a power rule isn't it this
is U to the 3 power divided by the 3
plus C oh gosh I'm getting too far ahead
of myself again it's that plus C we are
talking about a definite integral here
we gotta remember to change those
numbers if X is 1 plug it in
one minus one is zero if four goes in
square root of four there's gonna be two
two minus one we get one there so let me
fill those in here again we don't need
to do you plug you back in we can just
plug one in directly I can take that one
third out I do recommend doing that
alright let's take the one third out so
it becomes two-thirds in front one cubed
minus zero cubed grand
so one minus zero we just get 2/3
strangely the same as the last problem
here alright let's look at two last
examples of trigonometry so we're gonna
set u equal to what well there's a
pretty big clue here we can see that 2x
over 3 is in parentheses so we do have a
function inside here this was just an X
in here we wouldn't need u substitution
but it's a function of X so we're gonna
set u equal to this I'm gonna rewrite it
slightly I'm gonna write it as 2/3 X
because the next step is when I find the
derivative is it's gonna be a little
easier to write it kind of like this
this is sort of in the form of a power
this is just gonna be 2/3 DX now that is
a constant and although I'm missing it I
can always create it we just squeeze it
in there let's create a 2/3 if I create
a 2/3 I also have to create a 3 over 2
which I will factor out so we have 3
over 2 we have the antiderivative or the
definite integral of cosine u we have D
you also don't mean let's change the
limits of integration let's not forget
this time if x is 0 and if x is 0 plug
it in and we get U is 0 in that bad if X
is equal to PI over 2 let's plug it in
and this one let's say the twos are
gonna cancel out and so PI over 2 and
we're gonna get PI over 3 instead
alright good so we took 2 over 3 times
pi over 2 twos cancel that we're left
with PI over 3 and now this is kind of a
new problem here then we're gonna try to
evaluate this integral so what's the
antiderivative
well it should be sine of U I think
derivative of sine does go back to
cosine right you can always double check
1 PI over 3 in plug 0 and subtract
that's good bees ants
so we get sine of PI over three I
imagine where that is on the unit circle
PI over three
here's 0 here's PI PI over 3 must be
that one-third of the way there and
cosine no sorry sine is the Y value
there this is talking about a square
root of 3 over 2 minus sine of 0 this
will be 0 and so finally we're gonna get
3 square root of 3 all over 4 just
multiply the top multiply the bottom
together and that'll be our fraction
answer one last problem number six we
have secant squared of 2x this is now a
little bit tricky here because we've
seen before that when we get the square
here that this has a better way to be
written okay let me write this out here
this is kind of like saying a secant of
2x all squared in fact so what do we
have here well we have a function inside
of the function here but even the secant
of 2x is a function inside of the square
function so there's sort of a big
question here of how do we do this and
even if we could do this would we be
able to find the antiderivative okay so
what do we choose the trick here is
gonna be or the I don't know the secret
to solving this is going to be knowing
that we do know the antiderivative of
secant squared if this was just secant
squared X the antiderivative is tangent
X that's a known antiderivative that
we've learned all right so there's a
little bit of a clue there then that we
don't need to think of it like this in
fact we can just focus on the 2x right
now if u is equal to 2x my goal is to
try to write this as a secant squared to
you do you because that's something I
know the antiderivative about the
derivative if he was equal to 2x the
derivative would be to move the DX over
we do need to create that and a 1/2 and
kind of created a little separation here
we're gonna get 1/2 we're gonna get an
integral and we're gonna get secant
squared you do you are we do need to
change these limits of integration if x
is 0 2 times 0 0 PI over 8 goes in times
2 that's really PI over 4 this
anti-derivative we know this is just
gonna be tangent of you plug PI over 4
in plug zero in and let's subtract now
1/2 tangent of PI over 4 that's sine
over cosine sine of PI over frontally
write it out here over cosine of PI over
4 actually if you recall that both of
those are equal to square root of 2 over
2 so that's really the same thing or the
same thing that's just gonna be a 1
right there
minus sine of 0 over cosine 0 sine of 0
is 0 cosine of 0 is 1 this whole thing
goes to just 0 then 0 over 1 so finally
we're left with just an answer of 1/2
final answer
