what up folks this is GK by end of this
video you will exactly know what are the
things that you should focus and what
are the things that are less relevant in
2024 if you want to make a successful
career in devops this year so this is
not me saying but based on a report that
was published last year Q4
2023 by a job portal called Cube careers
so Cube carriers is nothing but like a
monster.com or no.com but specifically
created for kubernetes jobs based. off
us so they have picked around 293 jobs
and they have done analysis on those
jobs and they have come up with this
report so all these jobs had kubernetes
requirement and a clear salary range of
course in us and all these jobs are
listed directly by the companies not
through any consultancies so let's dive
into these observations that can help
you to specifically pick what you have
to learn in 2024 so the first and key
observation is all the jobs that were
published
in the Q4 had software engineer title so
if you had this misconception that
kubernetes is only for devops engineers
or the platform Engineers or sres based
on this report that is not true
everybody should learn kubernetes
whether you are a software developer or
a you know senior software engineer of
all the jobs that were published in Q4
2023 35% of these were software engineer
positions that required kubernetes
experience and next in popularity were
platform engineers and site reliability
Engineers roles with 11% and 9
percentage and Then followed by devops
Engineers so if you are already a
developer and would love to learn
kubernetes then this is awesome news for
you get the CK ad certification done
this year and uh that would be a good
start so second finding companies are
mostly interested in the senior and
mid-level Engineers for these kubernetes
positions of all the jobs published in
Q4 2023 60% were for senior level
positions and midlevel positions
constituted to 21% percentage the third
finding clearly helps you to understand
whether the certifications are needed or
not so surprisingly 91% of these job
postings did not have any mention of
certification meaning that you're not
required to have a kubernetes
certifications if you can just show your
kubernetes experience and uh you know if
you can crack the interview that is good
enough so only
8.9% of these job postings had a
requirement for certification and if the
certifications were mentioned in the job
postings 40% of them had the aw
certifications and Then followed by
Azure cka and any Linux Foundation
certifications and then gcp and card
certifications were mentioned in 7% and
3% so my take on this is that if you are
a senior Pro already seasoned kubernetes
experienced person then you know it
makes no sense to have a certification
because you're already having a hands-on
experience and you can crack the
interviews but for those who are
starting to learn kubernetes it's always
easy to it's always easy to prepare
through certifications because it gives
you structured learning whether it is
cka or ck or you know kubernetes
certified security specialist so having
certifications will only help you to get
shortlisted especially in the Indian
market uh my suggestion is have one
certifications if you are have one
certification at least if you're
starting to learn kubernetes in 2024 and
the other finding the most popular
technologies that were mentioned for
kubernetes jobs obviously is stalker and
then next is postra and cfom and RIS and
all the other Technologies so this is
quite obvious because Docker is needed
if you are already looking for a cuetes
person and I'm sure like if you are
learning cuetes you must have already
had some experience with Docker again
another common question that you usually
ask me which programming languages are
most in demand for cuberes jobs and this
is not only for cuberes jobs this makes
sense for the devops jobs or in general
devops jobs that are public lished even
in India or anywhere in the market the
number one job that was mentioned was
Python and then the second Java go
JavaScript and SQL so if you ask me my
order would have been Python and go but
since the jobs also had the software
engineers and software developers as the
main title and that's the reason the
probably Java came second now which cicd
tools are most popular if you are
guessing this to be genkins then my
friends you are guessing it completely
wrong or or you probably misguided
because the number one cicd tool that
got mentioned in this uh in this report
is gitlab and then second it is genkins
and circle CI and fourth it is GitHub
actions and if my assessment is correct
I'm sure GitHub actions will overtake
probably Circle C and genkins and it
will come to the second place U probably
by end of this year and then there'll be
a tough competition between gitlab and
GitHub actions that is my S M so now if
you are looking to learn a cic CD tool
then obviously spend your time on gitlab
or you can also spend time on GitHub
actions so number seven is giops
actually needed or is giop experience
actually needed not really needed only
7% mentioned that they need uh giops
experience but even in the 7% the most
popular tool obviously is Argo CD you
must have heard these many YouTubers
talk about Argo CD and it's a very
important tops tool so spend some time
on Argo CD if you have after you have
completed the top things like learning
Python and then uh you know CK
certifications and Cuban and all those
things and then come to giop so don't
start right away with the giops and Argo
CD so now eight what configuration
management tools are popular in
kubernetes jobs obviously the answer is
terraform I'm sure you must have guessed
this already and then the second one is
anible so there are about 21% of the
jobs that were posted had configuration
management requirement in those jobs and
uh we've been talking this for quite
some time if you are into Market in 2024
then without terraform and kubernetes it
is very less likely that you can even
your resume will be shortlisted so do
learn terraform and then if you have
time spend time on anible because I see
that there is very less requirement for
anible in this whole kubernetes
ecosystem so number nine the most
popular Cloud that was mentioned in
these jobs no surprises here obviously
it was AWS with
41.8% so 90% of the jobs that were
published had revealed their
infrastructure location like which Cloud
they are primarily using and that's why
41% of them had AWS as their preference
at a distance but still fighting for the
second place were gcp and Azure so yeah
AWS if you want to learn kubernetes on
AWS then obviously dzs and finally the
10th one what monitoring logging and
observability tools that were popular in
the job descriptions and no surprises
here again Prometheus came first and 22%
of those jobs had the logging
requirement and second grafana and data
dog so data dog is more for Enterprise
version so have used that in past and
mostly corporate companies or big
companies who can spend money would use
data dog but if you if you were to pick
one tool then obviously it is Prometheus
so start with Prometheus and that should
be good enough for monitoring and
observability perspective so these are
the things that you should focus in the
year 2024 I'm sure you will agree with
most of these things even if you have
done your own research or searched in
LinkedIn and searched in other locations
you will find these are the most common
things and most important things that
they would ask so don't Focus your
energy and spend time on the things that
are not needed such as you know a puppet
or chef and other outdated stuff so
Focus your time and effort on
these things which are listed here based
on the report and I wish you all a very
good luck with your devops journey in
2024 and do let me know in the comment
section if you disagree with any of
these things or if you want to add
anything that would benefit others who
are watching this video thank you all
again take care
[Music]
bye
