oh so you like leaving money on the
table
that's nothing like me if you don't like
leaving money on the table you should
know that if you just got a job offer
now is the time to negotiate this is the
highest leverage position you will ever
have once you start working at that
company your leverage is smaller so now
is the time to negotiate in this video
we're going to walk through the tried
and true tactics for negotiating your
salary and the overall offer
compensation package welcome to the
pocketboard channel where industry
mentors share their expertise to help
you navigate your current professional
goals i'm erica and i'm the founder of
pocketboard and i'm also a mentor on
pocketboard who helps people land their
dream jobs i'm a former google hiring
manager who's hired dozens of people at
google and other top tier tech companies
landing my dream job at google almost 10
years ago changed the entire trajectory
of my career and i love mentoring people
to help give them the exact same
opportunity as a mentor i love
empowering people to show up for
themselves tell strong and compelling
stories about their careers ace their
interviews and optimize their offer
compensation
i've been a hiring manager at google and
other large tech companies and unicorn
tech startups for over 10 years i've
seen the best and the worst of salary
negotiations and i'm here to share all
those tips and tricks with you
this video is going to focus on fang
companies and then everything from early
stage to late stage startups in the
technology space even if you aren't in
tech most of the advice i'm going to
share is going to
stand up pretty strong in any industry
in any type of role some of the
specifics i'm going to share about
equity packages for example are not
going to apply to every industry or
every role but how you should conduct
yourself in the interview process as you
talk with members of the company and how
you actually handle offer calls in
negotiation that is going to be timeless
advice that's going to work across every
industry enroll
the best strategies of salary
negotiation are going to be highly
dependent on what the elements are of
compensation for any given role total
compensation tends to vary by industry
predominantly and then also by stage of
company whether it's a private company a
public company an early stage startup a
late stage startup the first step in
negotiating your compensation is to
understand the components of
compensation that are standard for this
industry and for the company that you're
interviewing for
[Music]
typically the compensation components
that you're talking about here will
include base salary bonus
equity packages
very very analytical people will argue
with me that the sum total of the entire
benefits package is the actual
compensation package and that is
actually true however i find that when
you start negotiating over days of
vacation or paying your dental premium
you're kind of in the like 20 tale of
value so this video is going to focus on
the three major components of
compensation that have the largest
impact on your total compensation
base salary bonus and equity package
before we go any further please
subscribe to the channel ring the bell
so you get notified every time we drop a
new video that can help you in your
career and of course please like this
video to cheer us on
to get started i'm going to outline the
three kind of major buckets of
technology companies and their typical
compensation components and then the
major strategy that's going to get you
the most bang for your buck the rest of
this video is going to go into a lot of
other strategies but i'm just going to
enumerate the main strategies right now
[Music]
so big tech i'm talking fang companies
microsoft
large tech companies let's say more than
30 to 50 000 people typical compensation
components are going to be base salary
some sort of bonus that's targeted based
on the level of the role and an equity
target for big tech compensation is
fairly formulaic okay so the biggest
folder the largest strategy that you can
do to improve your compensation is going
to be to improve the level that you get
brought in at every big tech company has
some sort of numerical leveling system
and in your interview process they are
assessing you for not only can you
perform the duties of the role but at
what level are you going to perform and
the leveling will determine your
compensation so your major strategy if
you're interviewing at a large tech
company is to get leveled as high as
possible
[Music]
interview coaching we have mentors on
pocketboard who specialize in interview
coaching people for all the big tech
companies and they can help you hone the
examples that you're giving all of your
interview responses so that you can have
the best chance of getting leveled as
high as possible
let's zoom in on early stage startups so
i'm talking about startups here that are
before their series d fundraising round
early stage startups are going to have
just a base and an equity they usually
haven't implemented bonus programs yet
because the company is still burning
cash to grow they're going to want to
weight your offer more towards equity so
as the company is more successful you
can have an outsized equity return that
would outweigh the cash compensation
that they would be able to pay you
however we all know that most startups
don't necessarily have success stories
and so there's a bit of a risk element
here as well the major strategy here is
you need to have a rock solid
understanding of the trajectory for the
industry that this company is playing in
of the company itself do they have sound
foundations from a monetization
perspective from a leadership
perspective from a business strategy
product strategy perspective
the reason that this strategy is so
effective is that the age old adage that
like you shouldn't ask for what seat
you're getting on a rocket ship is
actually true if you're actually getting
on a rocket ship if you're getting on a
greyhound bus that looks like a rocket
ship and they tell you it's a rocket
ship but it's really a great home bus
you're still getting on a greyhound bus
okay so if you can get into an actual
company with strong solid foundations a
great monetization model a great
business strategy great leadership team
and strong product strategy you should
sign up today because the reality is is
that you're going to come in the company
is going to grow tremendously over the
time that you're there if it's doing
well if it actually is a rocket ship and
because of that you're going to be
forced to grow professionally you will
likely have a number of promotions along
the way they'll implement a bonus
program they'll give you equity
sweeteners to kind of keep the core team
together and that can have a major
outsized impact on your compensation can
you tell that i like early stage
startups
[Music]
next we'll talk about mid to late stage
startups so these are going to be your
series d they've already raised a series
d or they're raising the series d now
all the way to maybe a year after
an initial public offering or ipo so
these companies tend to be very rapidly
moving towards either ipo readiness or
their post ipo there are audit
requirements as part of going public for
fair compensation that will
effectively force the company to
standardize their market salaries to
match market demands and so what you'll
find is in your early stage startups
you're probably getting paid
significantly under market value if you
went to some other company that's
further along you'd get paid more cash
but you're getting paid that equity
compensation at these late stage
startups they actually have enough cash
they're usually still burning money to
grow but they usually have a fairly
large cash coffers they have paying
customers so they can actually pay you
closer to market rate some of these
companies will even have bonus programs
in place and all of them will for the
most part continue to offer equity
compensation as well for longer term
incentives there tends to be a lot of
variance in these post d to post ipo
companies and so the best strategy for
you to think about here is going to be a
blend of the strategy we just discussed
for early stage where you're really
understanding the foundational
likelihood of success of this company
and then you're going to have to bring
in your own risk tolerance around equity
versus cash to make a decision on how
hard you're going to push for
higher cash compensation versus
equity-based compensation
i'm going to say this now and then i'll
probably say it again compensation is
highly personal i rarely find that
people are able to keep themselves calm
cool and collected during compensation
conversations whether that's at the
beginning of your recruiting process or
when you're actually knee-deep in
negotiating an actual offer on the table
because it is so personal because it is
so high stakes i highly recommend that
you hire a mentor someone who negotiates
compensation all day every day all of
the mentors on pocketboard who help with
salary negotiation have extensive
experience either as a recruiter at one
of these top tier tech companies fan
companies or even early mid-stage
startups or there are people that are on
the other side of the table so
frequently that they see what works and
doesn't work on offer negotiation from a
hiring manager perspective and can
really coach you on how to negotiate
your offer effectively i generally tell
people just save yourself the fear of
regret and just hire a mentor
negotiations start the moment you speak
to a representative of that company this
can be some sort of informal coffee chat
an email intro that someone makes to you
to someone that works the company it can
be you talking to someone in hr someone
who's a recruiter
the moment you start speaking to the
company you are already off for
negotiating and what i mean by that is
remember my number one
strategy for fang and large tech
companies is to get leveled as high as
possible well similarly at your early
and late stage startups your
conversations will give start to give
signals very quickly to anyone you talk
to around what level you're able to
perform at and what level they could
slot you in at the company and so the
way that you articulate your experience
your value proposition what you're
looking for and what matters to you all
of those things will play into how
strong your offer is always always be
professional make sure you're
articulating your career story with
confidence be on time send thank you
notes know that every conversation
counts towards your final offer
i have found that one of the most useful
simple things you can do to position
yourself to articulate your career story
effectively is to practice
telling people about yourself it's one
of the most common interview questions
it's a really common kind of softball
starter question in any conversation
informal or formal when you're job
interviewing so making sure that you
know how to tell me about yourself is
one of the key things that you can do to
position yourself for success in really
early stage offer negotiation before you
even know you're negotiating
so i linked the video above on how to
answer the tell me about yourself
question you'll find that it will reap
lots of rewards for you as you go
through the interview and job search
process
when it comes to conversations with
recruiters you need to expect that
they're going to ask you to
tell them your compensation expectations
at fang and large tech companies the
reason they're asking this is because
compensation is fairly formulaic so if
you give them a number they can kind of
get an idea of what level you might be
interviewing for so it just makes their
whole process a lot easier and they kind
of understand if you're going to be a
fit for the level of the roles that they
have available the reason they ask that
at other places is for the exact same
reason except there isn't as much of a
formula they want to understand if your
compensation expectations are wildly out
of expectation for the role and if
you're going to be disappointed and they
don't want to waste your time or their
time by having you interview for a role
whose compensation doesn't fit what you
want i'm going to share with you how to
handle that first time you get asked
about your compensation expectations so
that you can satisfy the actual reason
they're asking you the question without
compromising your ability to offer
negotiate when there is an actual offer
on the tape first rule of thumb do not
give them a number
don't give them a single number don't
give them a range of numbers don't tell
them you'd be happy at around x y or z
you do not share numbers with anyone who
asks you about your compensation
expectations until there is an offer on
the table so you might say okay well if
i'm not allowed to tell them my number
what am i allowed to do erica well
there's lots of things you can do here
so i'm going to share with you my
approach and you can kind of mix and
match change the order do whatever works
for you my approach is to start with
sharing my decision factors for the role
thanks for asking about compensation i'm
really excited about interviewing for
this role right now what i'm looking for
is the opportunity to work on a consumer
focused product with a team that is very
front-end focused and ideally exposes me
to machine learning which is an area of
computer science that i recently studied
and i'd be interested in having more
exposure to that then i want you to ask
them for the compensation band in
california this is actually required for
employers to provide this if you ask for
it so i'd like you to ask the recruiter
to share the compensation bans i tend to
say something along these lines i'd be
happy to discuss numbers more formally
when there's an offer on the table but
perhaps as a good starting point you can
share with me the compensation bands and
i can tell you if they're generally in
the range of what i would be looking
forward to if you are interviewing a
large tech company or fang ask what the
level of the role is you may not know
anything about leveling at fang
companies or big tech companies but the
internet does and so by getting the
level of the role or the leveling range
usually they'll tell you we're thinking
about you for a level four or five or
seven or eight and then you can go do
independent research to understand what
the compensation bands for those are and
what people who are actually at the
company are getting paid for in those
levels and i always end by reading that
i'm happy to discuss more specifics with
them once i've had a chance to review
the compensation bans and when there's a
formal offer on the table
so you've dodged the formal offer
sharing bullet good job now your
strategy needs to evolve to learn about
the team and to get them to see you in
the role and want you to join the
company i call this showing up and
stacking the deck i have a bunch of tips
i'm going to share with you on how you
show up and how you stack the deck for
yourself to increase the likelihood that
you're going to get this offer and that
it's going to be a strong offer
so my first tip for you is treat your
recruiter like an ally
the only point in the entire process
where your recruiter is on the other
side of the table is when you're
actually negotiating compensation for
the rest of the time they are your
inside person they are the person
looking out for you they're the person
who can influence and advocate for you
so you need to treat them that way which
includes sharing with them information
like the decision factors that you have
for the role we just discussed this i
want to work on a front-end team i want
to get some exposure to machine learning
i want to work on consumer apps sharing
with them that information allows them
to tell the team hey your team's a
really good fit for erica because she's
already told me privately that these are
the things she's really looking for
other information you can share with
them is snippets of conversations that
you've had i talked to deborah about the
role and she shared with me her
expectations for the first three months
on the roll and it really aligned with
what i would hope to be doing basically
reinforcing not only that you're a fit
for the role which your resume kind of
says but also that you're starting to
see yourself as a fit for the role and
they can use that as fodder in their own
internal influencing conversations
[Music]
do not be shy about asking the recruiter
who you've now turned into your ally for
tips and tricks cheat codes helpful
information for your interviews this can
include things like hey what types of
questions should i expect which actually
brings me to my second tip you should
always ask for details on the
interviewers any large tech companies
are not going to give you actual
information on the interviewers they
don't want you to go on linkedin and
like try to friend these people and try
to send them messages what you can do
for these large tech companies is
instead of asking for the interviewers
names you can ask for their role
their title effectively and their level
and and when you ask for this you should
specifically say so that i can do
research and ask great questions that
are appropriate for their lens and scope
on the team what recruiter can say no to
that request you're just asking for
information so that you can perform
better in your interviews so you're more
likely to get the job so they're more
likely to have helped you get the job
and hit their quota
at most early and mid-stage startups
you're going to get the names of your
interviewers you should do some basic
research on them
[Music]
speaking of research one of my number
one tips for preparing for interviews is
to do your research i have a number of
videos on this i'm going to share one of
them above on how you can prepare for
any job interview this includes doing
research on the industry on the company
on the team or product that you're
interviewing for and on and even on the
individual interviewers i share tips on
how to do this in an efficient way i
share tips to do this in a way that
allows you to ask great questions to
show up engaged and prepared and to
increase your likelihood of convincing
them that you're a good fit for the role
my last tip here around showing up and
stacking the deck is around asking
questions so if you watch the video that
i just shared you know how to do the
research to formulate great questions
now the question is actually asking
those questions
[Music]
outside of asking the questions you've
researched i also want you to ask
questions that will allow you to get
more information about how much they
need this role what are the key
performance indicators of the role what
do they like to see someone in this role
doing in the first 30 60 90 days and
you're going to do that for two reasons
one it's going to give you a better idea
of whether you are a good fit for this
role whether it's a good fit for you
which will help you with your decision
making and the second thing is it allows
you to more deeply understand what each
of the stakeholders wants out of this
role which will help you in offer
negotiation at the end
so at this point you have dodged the
bullet of sharing your numbers you have
interviewed with all of the interviewers
you did a ton of research beforehand you
asked great questions and you got
incredible intel on what they want to
see out of this role and now it's time
for them to decide if they think that
you're a good fit for their role there's
usually a little bit of a waiting game
here and this is the perfect time for
you to gather data on what a possible
offer might look like one of the keys to
negotiating effectively is to understand
the range of possibilities that may be
offered to you knowing if you're on the
high end or the low end of the
compensation band is very important in
negotiating again you should have
already asked the recruiter for the
compensation bands if you forgot to or
got nervous about it and didn't do it in
any subsequent recruiter conversations
after your interview you should
definitely ask for the compensation
bands at this point they probably have a
stronger signal on what level you are if
it's at a fang or big tech company and
so they'll be able to give you
specificity around the band the second
type of data you're going to be looking
at is self-reported data from people
that actually work at these companies
and this is going to give you two things
one it's going to give you actual
information
that people are self-reporting on what
they're making working at these
companies in these roles at these levels
and it's also going to give you a little
bit of a peek into the culture at these
companies there's a few different places
on the internet where you can go to
learn more about company culture how
employees view the company that you're
interviewing for and also information
about their salaries one of these places
is blind teamblind.com
another place is glassdoor and then if
you're looking at big tech
the best place to look for salaries is
levels.fyi you won't necessarily get
information about whether people like
working there or about the job you're
probably going to get that more on blind
but you'll get really detailed fairly
up-to-date information on what people
working in service at those companies
are actually getting paid in order to do
any of this research if you're
interviewing at a fan company or another
big tech company like microsoft or uber
you do need to know the level of the
role that you're interviewing at
otherwise the online research will be
very hard so if you haven't already
asked for a level make sure you're
asking that to your recruiter at the
same time that you asked for the con
compounds for non-big tech and non-fang
companies usually there's no leveling
system it's mostly title based and so
you can get a pretty good idea of title
and people on glassdoor will be posting
the titles that they have so that you
can kind of orient yourself around their
reported compensation and their
experience at the company
handling the offer call so it's going to
start with the recruiter who is going to
call text or email you to set up time to
actually walk through a verbal offer
with you on this call you are not going
to negotiate your offer you are not
going to accept your offer all you're
going to do on this call is hear the
offer and then follow a few tips to set
yourself up for a successful subsequent
conversation where you're actually off
for negotiating so the first thing
you're going to do is not react to the
offer for people that are getting offers
that are a step above their current
compensation i often see people express
gratitude they will express shock all
excitement
all of these things recruiters know
exactly what they mean and it puts you
in a weaker position to offer negotiate
so you're going to channel your inner
poker player and not react to the offer
obviously we still want you to be polite
articulate and kind here so thank them
for giving you the offer secondly you
should reiterate your interest in the
role in fact if your interest in the
role increased because of the
conversations you've had through the
interview process you should state that
i'm even more excited about the role
than the first time we talked about it
second you're going to share anecdotes
about why you think you're a good fit
this is not reiterating your resume this
is not retelling them all of your
experience you've already had those
conversations they've already assessed
whether you're fit for the role this is
going to be pulling those questions and
answers that you asked in the interview
process where you asked about why the
role is so important to the team the
kpis for the role the urgency of the
role and you're going to reiterate that
i know that the team really needs
someone in this role quickly because of
an audit that's coming up and johnny and
i talked about how i'd be able to just
dive right in and hit the ground running
because i have experience in this space
before thirdly you're going to explain
why leaving your current job is going to
be super hard
this is going to be things like
milestones that you have coming up the
team that you are working with that you
adore and love and are mentoring and
you're growing so quickly this can be
upcoming promotions or even short-term
compensation things like bonuses or
expected increases in compensation
[Music]
doing this helps your recruiter
understand that while you're excited
about this role while the team sees you
as a fit for this role while you see
yourself as a great fit for this role
this is not an easy offer for you this
is not an easy decision for you it's
actually very hard for you this gives
the recruiter a sense of urgency and
you're treating them again as an ally
where they can go back and advocate for
you within the company and say i don't
know erica is really really in love with
her current team or erica has a 20 000
bonus on the line in the next couple of
months what can we do to make this offer
irresistible lastly i want you to tell
the recruiter that you're going to think
on the offer talk through it with your
partner things like that and then set a
follow-up call for about two to three
days they want to know if you're going
to accept the offer or not they want to
know kind of where you're at so two to
three days is enough time to do any
follow-up research and data collection
that you need to do and also enough time
to practice the conversation that you're
going to have in your actual negotiation
which comes next
a little bit of a sidebar here
never never never never never ever ever
try to offer negotiate via email the
reality is that you will get a
significantly poorer offer if you
negotiate via email rather than
negotiating via email which seems like
the easiest possible thing because
there's lots of templates out there and
you don't have to deal with ad-hoc
communication
you need to prepare yourself for an
in-person on the phone negotiation
because that is actually going to be the
only way to get a meaningful increase in
compensation there are a lot of
templates out there and sometimes it's
easier to write something out than it is
to say something and also in an email
you just send something and then you
wait for a response there's no like real
time thinking on your feet and that can
be really scary for people
if the reason that you're attending
towards trying to negotiate your offer
via email is because you're nervous
about improvising in real time i cannot
stress this more that you need to hire a
mentor or a coach to help you practice
the offer call so that you can prepare
for all the different questions and
answers and tactics that these people
have honed over years of being
professional recruiters and you can feel
prepared for any types of questions they
have
at this point you've scheduled your
follow-up call and you're about to get
on the phone with your recruiter
hopefully you hired a mentor or a coach
we have tons of mentors on pocketboard
who specialize in helping people prepare
for offer negotiations you've gathered
the data you've reset your mindset
you're feeling confident and now you've
practiced so you're ready to have the
conversation
every offer call is different so i
cannot put a youtube video that tells
you exactly what to do in your actual
call every offer compensation package is
different every recruiter relationship
is different every sense of leverage is
different it's very different to be on
the high end of the level versus the low
end so
i can't stress this enough the average
person is negotiating more than 30 000 a
year by spending a few hours and maybe a
couple of thousand dollars with an offer
negotiation coach it is the most simple
roi payback period you've ever had you
already have an offer so let them help
you optimize it
i'm going to give you a few tips on some
common recruiter negotiation tactics
that i've seen and ways that you can win
this is not an exhaustive list
recruiters are very creative capable
studied practiced people that are going
to come up with even more kind of
situations than what i can enumerate
here this is why you want to hire a
coach and actually work through this
with someone and actually role play but
i'm going to give you a few of them that
i have seen and heard that i have done
myself when i was a hiring manager and i
didn't have a recruiter
and some ways that you as a candidate on
the other side of the table can deal
with those tactics okay so tactic number
one
[Music]
recruiter says you're telling me you
have competitive offers but i'm actually
gonna need to see them
so whether the recruiter asks or not you
never have to share competitive offers
whether you have an offer in hand or not
ideally you're not sharing it one
because you're probably violating the
nda that you have signed with that
company by sharing their compensation
with another company and b because it is
unlikely to actually help you that much
in the process
[Music]
what i typically tell people to do is
let them know that you don't feel
comfortable whether it's because you
signed an nda or just your moral ethical
code actually showing them any
documentation but that they'll have to
take your word for it that the offer is
x y or z
you might be saying that you have
competitive offers and you might not
have competitive offers i really never
encourage bluffing but i see it happen
all the time so if you are saying that
you have competitive offers but you
don't actually have competitive offers
what you should do is use one of the
websites that i shared with you before
blind glassdoor or levels.fyi to
actually get some compensation range for
the roll or the compensation rate you
already asked for and be prepared to
tell them what your
bluffing offer looks like using a
reasonable range for the role
if when the recruiter gives you the
offer they use phrasing like we see you
have a lot of room for growth in the
role you pass the interview but we can
see that there's a lot of opportunity
for growth for you what they're
effectively saying is that you're on the
low end of this level if they think that
you barely pass the interview you can
imagine that that doesn't put you in a
very strong offer negotiation position
[Music]
what i have found works best is to ask
for feedback most bang and big tech
companies won't actually provide you
feedback so instead you can say okay if
you can't give me feedback would you be
willing to set me up with additional
conversations with some of the
interviewers who had concerns so that we
can talk through those this shows an
immense amount of emotional and
professional maturity rather than
feeling ashamed or hiding from the fact
that you got leveled on the low end
you're saying actually i want to
understand this more give me another
shot let me talk to these people i see
everything as a growth opportunity and
what actually tends to happen is that in
those follow-up conversations the
clarifying process and even just the
fact that you're willing to have the
conversations can change the opinions of
the interviewers and actually shift you
up in their perception of where you land
in that leveling range and of course
then puts you in a much better position
to negotiate because they actually want
you more
[Music]
if the recruiter and your initial offer
lets you know or at any point lets you
know that you're kind of at the top of
the band and there really isn't much
more room what this actually means is
that you performed very well in your
interviews and you might have even
performed at the next level or next
title if you're talking about early or
midstage startups and what that means is
there's actually an opportunity for you
to have follow-up interviews that allow
you to get into more of that stretch
role or that stretch level which would
include of course higher compensation
[Music]
if you get told that you're kind of at
the top of the band you should ask if
you can meet with additional
interviewers or re-meet with some of the
interviewers that you already had to
reassess whether you should actually be
considered for the next level oftentimes
you will be told well actually this team
can only support somebody at the mid
manager level and you can say okay great
well is there another team in the
organization that is looking for a more
senior manager i definitely want to be
in a challenging role give me the
opportunity to interview to show that i
can perform at that level and it's more
likely that you'll retain me anyways
because i'll be in the right role for my
abilities and skills
[Music]
if you're getting pushed or pressured by
the by the recruiter in any way whether
that's about sharing your compensation
number or a timeline remember that you
are in partnership with them and
ideally you can avoid getting overheated
or nervous or scared or offering an
ultimatum i find people do a lot of
things when they feel pushed into a
corner
so really making sure that you do not
feel pushed into a corner is the is the
number one tactic here if you're getting
pushed to share numbers just remember
that your tactic when you're getting
pushed to share a specific number should
always be to ask them to share specific
numbers with you so that you can react
to them you should share the factors
that will influence your decision rather
than giving them numbers once you share
a number
that is the highest number you will ever
see in your offer i can pretty much
guarantee it so usually when i say that
to people they like really sinks in with
them that they cannot share a number
because
us when you share a number i think
there's always a little hope in your
heart that you're actually going to get
a bigger number but i'm telling you that
99 of the time that is the highest
number you'll ever see and you'll
probably get a number under that
so don't share a number all right i'm
gonna get back on my soapbox about
hiring a mentor i know i've already said
this a few times
i've already explained the roi i've
already told you that the average mentee
on pocketboard increases their offer
between 30 and 70 000 per year i've
already told you that the investment
you'll need to make in hiring a mentor
is less than a couple of thousand
dollars total and you can do this after
you have the offer you already know that
you're likely to accept it
the last thing i want to just share with
you is just the concept of mentorship in
general
every professional athlete in the world
has coaches i think that we go through
our professional careers feeling like we
have to figure it out ourselves all of
the time and i'm particularly passionate
and iconoclastic about this perspective
every professional athlete in the world
serena williams lebron james steph curry
they all have coaches they have multiple
coaches they have breathing coaches they
have shooting coaches they have hitting
coaches
they have all the coaches you can
imagine so why would you not if you're
trying to be at the top of your career
why would you also not hire a career
coach or mentor all right stepping down
off my soapbox thank you so much for
joining us today if you found this video
helpful in any way give us a like
subscribe and hit the bell if you want
to get the latest videos that we publish
to help you in your career add comments
to give us suggestions ideas follow-up
questions we respond to every comment
and if you are in the process right now
of interviewing and offer negotiating at
any company and you want to share your
lessons learned or tactics that really
worked for you you can really help the
next person along the way and we're also
happy to critique or provide feedback on
any tactics that you're thinking about
using so use the comments below and we
look forward to chatting with you i'm
erica g and you can find tons of videos
on this channel that i've created to
help job interviewers and career seekers
find the right job and land their dream
roles
if you want one-on-one mentorship or
coaching from me you can book me at the
link in the description and i look
forward to helping you land your dream
job good luck in your salary negotiation
