hi there welcome to chapter 5 lesson 9
the second fundamental theorem of
calculus and before we begin here I want
to talk about the name of this lesson
the second fundamental theorem because
we've already learned something called
the fundamental theorem of calculus and
if you decide to look this up online and
maybe find a Khan Academy video or
something like that you might notice
that sometimes people will use different
names for these two things what I called
the fundamental theorem others might
call the second fundamental theorem what
I'm calling the second fundamental
theorem others might call the
fundamental theorem surprisingly there
doesn't seem to be too much consistency
here all I can say is they both stem
from the same idea the same theorem here
and so I'm gonna choose to call this one
the second fundamental theorem that's
how I was taught that's how our textbook
uses it and I just want to point out
that that sometimes these names might
get you know switched around depending
on who's calling it that name now what
is the second fundamental theorem of
calculus before we can answer that
question I want to examine something
kind of new it's a function that's
defined by a definite integral in other
words we're gonna have some function
where we input an X variable and that X
variable is going to go right here into
the upper limit of integration or that
upper bound to our definite integral and
we can see that there is something in
here like a t squared plus 1 and a DT so
there is something else in here a T
variable but we're gonna see that T is
actually what we call a dummy variable
the real variable here is X now why do
we call it a dummy variable dummy in
this case doesn't mean like an idiot or
something like that this goes back to
sort of the original meaning of the word
dummy which is a dummy gets used to
describe like sort of like a fake person
if you've seen like a puppet you know
where the person moves the mouth and
pretends to speak for it you can call
that puppet a dummy it's not a real
person it's a fake person in this way
it's a dummy variable because it's not
the real variable it's sort of a fake
variable the real variable to this
function is X X is the input and then
you can imagine that if we input a value
here that an answer will come out of
this on number will come out so for
instance
hey if I ask you what is f of - well
let's see we plug 2 in so we get an
integral from 1 to 2 now and we're gonna
get T squared plus 1 DT ok and I haven't
evaluated this yet but I do know that it
sort of represents the area under a
curve you can almost think of it as the
area from 1 to 2 under this curve I've
gone ahead and graph with the function T
squared plus 1 looks like it's a
parabola it's been shifted up one unit
and we can see in general that what the
function represents when we put in X
values is the area from 1 to X under
that curve so the area from 1 to 2
should be a number let's go ahead and
find out what that is to find out what
that is we're gonna use the fundamental
theorem of calculus which means we're
gonna find an antiderivative so we say t
to the 3 power right we add 1 and then
we divide by it so divide by 3 plus the
antiderivative of 1 is T or T naught X
in this case and then we're gonna plug 2
in plug 1 in and we're gonna subtract so
let's see what we get here if 2 goes in
we get 2 cubed is 8 over 3 plus 2 - if I
put 1 in we're gonna get 1 over 3 plus 1
now what I like to do is I like to
combine the values here that are easy to
combine together for instance this
fraction and this fraction here I have
the same denominator I'm gonna go ahead
and sort of skip ahead and combine those
together first okay so we're gonna get 8
over 3 minus 1 over 3 alright there's a
minus sign here minus 1 over 3 that's
gonna be 7 over 3 next we're gonna have
to and it's gonna be a minus 1 because
it's negative sign distributes 2 minus 1
is 1 and 1 0 3 over 3 we add these
together we should get 10 over 3 all
right so all that means is that the area
from 1 to 2 is 10 over 3 or 3 and 1/3
now I just want to point out this is a
function it means we plugged 2 in an x
value in and out came this number a
number goes in a number comes out that's
a function okay so this is a very
special function one that we haven't
seen before now that's just a meant to
give us a little understanding of what
we're dealing with here what I asked in
Part B might seem strange I say find f
of X
it might seem strange because well it's
right there we found it you know it's
already defined for us but what I mean
by that is I want us to go through this
process of finding the antiderivative
plugging X and plugging one in and
subtracting so we're just going to keep
X as X we're not going to put a 2 in
there or anything we're just going to
leave it as a variable so it's very
similar to what we just did we're going
to find the antiderivative which we did
just do we're gonna plug X in now
instead of 2 and we're gonna plug one in
we're gonna subtract so we should get a
1/3 X cubed plus we're gonna put X in
and lastly we're gonna put one in and
now if I put one into both of these I'm
gonna get 1/3 plus 1 and real quickly
1/3 plus 1 is 4 over 3 so if I do this
now that does look like a function I've
seen before this looks like a polynomial
in fact it's a cubic polynomial of
degree 3 now I don't know exactly what
that graph would look like but I've seen
something like this before
whereas before today I haven't seen
anything like this kind of function and
so what we can see is that this is
really just a polynomial function it
sort of in disguise it's hiding in here
because it's defined as a definite
integral interesting now in Part C this
is really where we get to the heart of
the lesson what is the derivative of f
of X now if I had asked you from the
very beginning what is the derivative of
this function we'd have no idea we
haven't learned a derivative rule for a
function like this we've never even seen
a function like this but we have seen a
function like this which is what it
really is it's a polynomial and the
derivative of that should be well the 3
comes down and cancels that we get X to
the 2 power derivative of X is 1 and the
derivative of that 4/3 because it's a
constant should be 0 I'm gonna get our
answer x squared plus 1 now I want to go
back to the original function here and
kind of look at this and compare it we
can see that finding the derivative of
this function is very similar to what we
had here in fact this symbol we know is
not just a definite integral but we know
it kind of also means like an
antiderivative if I ask you to find the
derivative of this function it kind of
makes sense that this should sort of
cancel out the derivative of an ant
derivative but it's not just an
antiderivative we have these numbers
that we're plugging in so what after we
put X into the antiderivative we can see
this is going to be a function of X not
a function of T remember T is the dummy
variable it's not the real variable here
and what about this one here because it
seems like all I did is I when I found
the derivative of this I'm just plugging
X in to this function into this
integrand and getting this answer but
what would happen if I had something
other than one here what if I had a two
there or a PI there we can imagine what
if I had something other than one here
like two well I would just get a
different constant here I want to get
four over three I would get some other
constant and the derivative of that
constant should always be zero it would
always disappear and so it turns out it
doesn't really matter what this is as
long as it's a constant all we had to do
to find the derivative is plug X into
this dummy variable and that's our
answer and that's the second fundamental
theorem of calculus it's this idea that
to find the derivative of a function
that's defined like this where we have a
constant and the lower bound X which is
really the variable here in the upper
bound the way that we find the
derivative is we just simply plug it
into the dummy variable and that's going
to be our answer the answer should be in
terms of X not in terms of T now I never
learned something like this which is
essentially a new derivative rule we
also can learn a chain rule with it in
other words what happens if I have
something other than X there what if I
have like an X cubed or something or a
sine of X well we're still going to do
the derivative rule like we're you sir
we're still going to plug it into the
dummy variable T and then we're gonna
have to multiply by the derivative of it
we'd have to multiply by a 3x squared
right there because that's the chain
rule now we'll see some specific
examples here in a moment I just want to
introduce what the second fundamental
theorem is and how we can apply chain
rule let's take a look at some specific
examples and number two I say use the
second fundamental theorem of calculus
to find the derivative now when I say
use the second fundamental theorem I I
don't mean use the fundamental do I
don't mean find the antiderivative plug
X and plug 2 in we basically just
learned a shortcut for this the way that
we can find this derivative is we can
take this X and plug it in directly and
our dummy variable in this case is U so
this should just be sine of X and that's
our answer
because this is a constant even if we
had found an antiderivative in plug 2
and the derivative of that constant
would still be zero it would go away so
as long as it's a constant there we
don't care what it is if the derivative
will be 0 so this is it I in some ways
this is like the easiest derivative rule
we've learned if we really understand
how to apply it to find the derivative
of a function like this we just take X
and plug it into our dummy variable and
we're done there's practically no
transformation here we just switch you
to X or T 2x or whatever the dummy
variable is and we get rid of this
integral symbol of course let's look at
number three how do I find the
derivative of this one well let's just
double check we do have a constant here
we do have X our variable here and it is
a function of X right so we know this is
told to us right here f of X it's a
function of X the derivative of this
function should be let's plug it in we
get x squared over we got also plug it
in down here as well right goes into all
T so this is gonna be x squared plus 1
on the bottom and that's my answer
number 4 we find the derivative of this
function all right so we got a 4-year
good we got a variable here X good you
just plug it in square root of x that's
our answer we just plug it in alright
that and number 5 it's finally the
derivative of this function it is in the
form you got the constant we have a
variable just plug it in we get secant
not of Tebow's secant of X tangent of
map T but the tangent of X and the
answer answer do you see how simple this
new derivative rule is when I try it
number six G prime of X okay if you've
been seeing that I've noticed I've been
calling all of these capital X call
whatever you want it's just some
function name the derivative of this
should be well we got a constant we got
a variable just plug X into the dummy
variable of U we get e to the X now
notice I don't know how to find that
antiderivative currently so this is what
I definitely couldn't even use the
fundamental theorem before we have to
use this shortcut the second fundamental
theorem one last one here before you get
into sort of a different category of
these problems number seven we can find
the derivative of this dy/dx is equal to
plug X and we get arc tangent X
I thought about that function in one
alright so number eight is gonna be
something a little bit different we can
see that we have a constant here zero
but now instead of having X up here we
have an x squared we have something
besides X what this is is a function
inside of a function it's a composition
which means this is our clue that we
need to be using a chain rule we don't
have X there we have some function of X
so what we can do since we have this new
derivative rule is we can still use it
we can still take the x squared and plug
it into our dummy variable so we're
gonna get x squared going in 40 which
means we square that add one but there's
something new about this because it's
not just X there we have to multiply by
the derivative of it so we gotta
multiply everything by a - X this is
chain rule and we simplify it I'll just
move the 2x out front let's see we have
just call that X to the fourth plus one
that's about all I can do it I mean you
could multiply it out but I like the
factored answers maybe we can use a
parentheses instead of a square bracket
up to you number nine here we have a
function and integral from zero to sine
of X again it's not except there it's a
function of X so we can still find this
derivative we just got to plug it in so
instead of T squared plus one we're
going to plug in sine of X and we need a
chain rule so we gotta multiply by the
derivative of sine X now when you
multiply by the derivative of sine X
make sure we do it times everything here
derivative of sine is cosine X and
that's our answer
okay you could leave your answer like
that I'm okay with that the only other
thing we could do is maybe write this as
sine squared X plus one I'm not even
gonna multiply this out I'll leave the
cosine x factor down number ten we have
a kind of a unique Cocozza there PI but
it is a constant we have a square root
of x in the upper bound so we do need to
use a chain rule here the derivative is
well we get sine of not T but sine of
the square root of x times now the chain
rule we got to think about what is the
derivative of square root of x well just
real quick this is X to a 1/2 power we
do want to think of it that way that's a
power rule so one half comes down yeah X
to a negative one half right
track 1 and the last thing I'm going to
do is I'm going to simplify this that
means I'd only just make this one
fraction here there's a 2 on the bottom
X to the positive 1/2 flips to the
bottom and since there's a 1 on top and
we're also multiplying by sine of square
root of X let's go ahead and put that on
top sine of square root of x goes to the
top everything else is on the bottom
alright one last problem to make sure we
got this idea how do I find the
derivative of this well we got a
constant in the bottom we got a cosine X
on the top so we're gonna plug the
cosine X in to get cosine X to the 17
power plus cosine X to the 11th power
and then we got to multiply everything
by chain rule times the derivative of
cosine derivative of cosine is a
negative sine of X and I'm not even
gonna bother to try to multiply that out
here I think factored is just fine now I
want you to notice that when we do a
chain rule we're finding the derivative
of this function of X we are not finding
the derivative of the integrand we're
not finding a derivative of t t is not
going to be in my answer at all that's
the dummy variable we're always finding
the derivative of the inner function of
X when doing chain rule
